Executive Order  —Establishing a Federal Earthquake Risk Management Standard
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of  , as amended, and section 121(a) of title  , United States Code, and to improve the  's resilience to earthquakes, I hereby direct the following:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to strengthen the security and resilience of the   against earthquakes, to promote public safety, economic strength, and national security. To that end,   must continue to take proactive steps to enhance the resilience of buildings that are owned, leased, financed, or regulated by  . When making investment decisions related to Federal buildings, each executive department and agency (agency) responsible for implementing this order shall seek to enhance resilience by reducing risk to the lives of building occupants and improving continued performance of essential functions following future earthquakes. The   recognizes that building codes and standards primarily focus on ensuring minimum acceptable levels of earthquake safety for preserving the lives of building occupants. To achieve true resilience against earthquakes, however, new and existing buildings may need to exceed those codes and standards to ensure, for example, that the buildings can continue to perform their essential functions following future earthquakes. Agencies are thus encouraged to consider going beyond the codes and standards set out in this order to ensure that buildings are fully earthquake resilient.

 . 2

.

Requirements for Earthquake Safety of New Federal Buildings, Improvements to Existing Federal Buildings, and  , Financed, or  

.

(a)

New Buildings and Alterations to Existing Buildings

. Each agency responsible for the design and construction of a new building or an alteration to an existing building shall ensure that the building is designed, constructed, or altered, respectively, in accord with appropriate earthquake-resistant design and construction codes and standards as set forth in sections 3(a) and 3(b) of this order.

(b)

Space Leased for Federal Occupancy

. Each agency responsible for the lease of a building shall, to the extent permitted by law, ensure that it leases only buildings that have been designed and constructed in accord with the appropriate earthquake-resistant design and construction standards that apply to the type of lease at issue, as set forth in section 3(c) of this order.

(c)

Federal Assistance Programs

. Each agency assisting in the financing, through   grants or loans, or guaranteeing the financing, through loan or mortgage insurance programs, of a newly constructed building shall consider updating its procedures for providing the assistance to be consistent with section 3(a) of this order, to assure appropriate consideration of earthquake safety.

(d)

Federally Regulated Buildings

. Each agency with responsibility for regulating the structural safety of a new building shall consider using earthquake-resistant design and construction standards for the new building consistent with section 3(a) of this order.

 . 3

.

Codes, Standards, and  .

(a) Commencing within   after the date of this order, each agency shall ensure that every new building for which the agency has not started programming is in compliance with the earthquake-resistant design provisions of the   editions of   (IBC) or the International Residential Code ( ), nationally recognized building codes promulgated by   (ICC), or equivalent codes, consistent with the provisions of and to the extent required by 40 U.S.C.  . When the   releases a new version of the   or  , each agency that constructs buildings shall determine whether the new version is a nationally recognized code for the purposes of 40 U.S.C. 3312(b), as expeditiously as practicable, but not   after the release of the new version. If an agency determines that a new version is a nationally recognized code, it shall ensure that any building, for which the agency has not started programming, shall be in compliance with that new version or an equivalent code.

(b) Each agency that owns an existing Federal building shall adopt the

Standards of Seismic Safety for Existing Federally Owned and Leased Buildings

(Standards), which are developed, issued, and maintained by  ), as the minimum level acceptable for managing the earthquake risks in that building. Any agency that has not adopted the Standards at the time of this order shall adopt the Standards   from the date of this order. All agencies shall adopt subsequent editions of the Standards as expeditiously as practicable, but   following their issuance.

(c) Each agency that leases space in an existing building shall adopt the Standards as the minimum level acceptable for managing the earthquake risks in that building. This requirement shall apply to existing leases or leases existing at the time of issuance of updated Standards only to the extent appropriate, as determined by the leasing agency. With respect to leases for a building being constructed to accommodate a Federal agency under the authority in 40 U.S.C. 585(a), the leasing agency shall ensure that the building complies with the earthquake-resistant design and construction standards that would apply to a building constructed by the agency pursuant to section 3(a) of this order. With respect to such leases entered into under authority other than 40 U.S.C. 585(a), the leasing agency shall ensure that the building complies with the earthquake-resistant design and construction standards that would apply to a building constructed by the agency pursuant to section 3(a) of this order, to the extent permitted by law.

(d) Agencies may require higher performance levels than exist in the codes and standards described in sections 3(a), (b), and (c) of this order.

 . 4

.

  and  

. (a) The   shall be composed of representatives of all Federal agencies engaged in construction, financing of construction, or related activities.   ( ) Lead Agency, currently   (NIST), shall lead the  , and shall lead the development and maintenance of   guidelines to assist the   agencies with implementing earthquake risk reduction measures in their construction programs.

(b) Agencies whose activities are covered by this order shall designate one or more  ) to serve as focal points for the agency's compliance with this order and to participate in the   as appropriate. Within   of the date of this order, each agency shall identify its  ) to the Director of NIST.

(c) The Director of NIST, on behalf of the  , shall issue implementing guidelines to assist agency compliance with this order within   of this order. The implementing guidelines shall provide specific guidance, including guidance about the roles and responsibilities of the agencies under section 2 of this order. The implementing guidelines shall also describe the responsibilities and necessary qualifications of  .

(d) The Director of NIST, on behalf of the  , shall provide assistance in interpreting the implementing guidelines to the   departments and agencies.

(e) The   shall publish updated Standards for assessing and enhancing the earthquake resilience of existing buildings as required by this order. The   shall review and update the Standards as needed to comply with this order at the maximum interval of  . Participation in the   shall continue to be open to all agencies with programs affected by this order. The Director of NIST shall provide support for the secretariat of the   and determine the frequency and scope of the   meetings as necessary to support this order.

(f) Agencies whose activities are covered by this order shall submit biennial reports to the Director of   (OMB) and the Director of NIST on their progress in implementing the order, commencing   from the date of this order.

(g) Agency compliance shall be summarized in the   reports to the  .

 . 5

.

Revocation

. Executive Order 12699 of   (  and Federally Assisted or  ), as amended, and Executive Order   (Seismic Safety of Existing Federally Owned or  ) are hereby revoked.

 . 6

.

Definitions

. As used in this order:

(a) "building" means any structure, fully or partially enclosed, used or intended for sheltering persons or property;

(b) "alteration to an existing building" means an action that alters, as defined in 40 U.S.C. 3301(a)(1), a building and that significantly extends the building's useful life and totals more than the replacement values established in the Standards for the building's assigned  ; and

(c) "programming" means developing and validating project assumptions, scope, budgets, and implementation strategy for a building.

 . 7

.

Exemption Authority

. (a) The head of an agency may exempt a building from sections 2 and 3 of this order:

(i) to the extent the head of an agency determines that exempting such building is substantially related to an important law enforcement purpose; or

(ii) to the extent the head of an agency determines that exempting such building is necessary to address an extraordinary circumstance relating to national security or public safety.

(b) Even when otherwise eligible for an exemption under this section, each agency shall strive to comply with the purposes, goals, and requirements set forth in this order to the maximum extent practicable. (c) If the head of an agency issues an exemption under this section, the agency must notify the Director of OMB in writing within   of issuance of the exemption under this subsection.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) Nothing in this order shall apply to assistance provided for emergency work essential to save lives and protect property and public health and safety, performed pursuant to agencies' statutory authorities, and sections 402, 403, 502, and 503 of the   Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (the "Stafford Act") (   ,  ,  , and  ), or for temporary housing assistance programs and individual and family grants performed pursuant to section 408 of the Stafford Act (42 U.S.C. 5174). This order shall, however, apply to other provisions of the Stafford Act after a   declared major disaster or emergency when assistance actions involve new construction or alterations to an existing building.

(e) This order applies only to buildings within   and its territories and possessions.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
