Executive Order  —Presidential Records
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to establish policies and procedures governing the assertion of executive privilege by incumbent and former Presidents in connection with the release of Presidential records by   ( ) pursuant to   of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Definitions.

For purposes of this order:

(a) " " refers to the   of   or his designee.

(b) "NARA" refers to  .

(c) "Presidential Records Act" refers to  ,   U.S.C. 2201–2207.

(d) "NARA regulations" refers to the   regulations implementing the Presidential Records Act, 36   Part  .

(e) "Presidential records" refers to those documentary materials maintained by   pursuant to  , including Vice Presidential records.

(f) "Former President" refers to the former President during whose term or terms of office particular Presidential records were created.

(g) A "substantial question of executive privilege" exists if  's disclosure of Presidential records might impair national security (including the conduct of foreign relations), law enforcement, or the deliberative processes of the executive branch.

(h) A "final court order" is a court order from which no appeal may be taken.

 . 2.

Notice of Intent to Disclose Presidential Records.

(a) When the   provides notice to the incumbent and former Presidents of his intent to disclose Presidential records pursuant to section 1270.46 of the   regulations, the  , using any guidelines provided by the incumbent and former Presidents, shall identify any specific materials, the disclosure of which he believes may raise a substantial question of executive privilege. However, nothing in this order is intended to affect the right of the incumbent or former Presidents to invoke executive privilege with respect to materials not identified by the  . Copies of the notice for the incumbent President shall be delivered to the President (through the Counsel to the President) and the Attorney General (through the Assistant Attorney General for  ). The copy of the notice for the former President shall be delivered to the former President or his designated representative.

(b) Upon the passage of   after receipt by the incumbent and former Presidents of a notice of intent to disclose Presidential records, the   may disclose the records covered by the notice, unless during that time period the   has received a claim of executive privilege by the incumbent or former President or the   has been instructed by the incumbent President or his designee to extend the time period for a time certain and with reason for the extension of time provided in the notice. If a shorter period of time is required under the circumstances set forth in section 1270.44 of the   regulations, the   shall so indicate in the notice.

 . 3.

Claim of Executive Privilege by Incumbent President.

(a) Upon receipt of a notice of intent to disclose Presidential records, the Attorney General (directly or through the Assistant Attorney General for  ) and the Counsel to the President shall review as they deem appropriate the records covered by the notice and consult with each other, the  , and such other executive agencies as they deem appropriate concerning whether invocation of executive privilege is justified.

(b) The Attorney General and the Counsel to the President, in the exercise of their discretion and after appropriate review and consultation under subsection (a) of this section, may jointly determine that invocation of executive privilege is not justified. The   shall be notified promptly of any such determination.

(c) If either the Attorney General or the Counsel to the President believes that the circumstances justify invocation of executive privilege, the issue shall be presented to the President by the Counsel to the President and the Attorney General.

(d) If the President decides to invoke executive privilege, the Counsel to the President shall notify the former President, the  , and the Attorney General in writing of the claim of privilege and the specific Presidential records to which it relates. After receiving such notice, the   shall not disclose the privileged records unless directed to do so by an incumbent President or by a final court order.

 . 4.

Claim of Executive Privilege by Former President.

(a) Upon receipt of a claim of executive privilege by a living former President, the   shall consult with the Attorney General (through the Assistant Attorney General for  ), the Counsel to the President, and such other executive agencies as the   deems appropriate concerning the  's determination as to whether to honor the former President's claim of privilege or instead to disclose the   records notwithstanding the claim of privilege. Any determination under section 3 of this order that executive privilege shall not be invoked by the incumbent President shall not prejudice the  's determination with respect to the former President's claim of privilege.

(b) In making the determination referred to in subsection (a) of this section, the   shall abide by any instructions given him by the incumbent President or his designee unless otherwise directed by a final court order. The   shall notify the incumbent and former Presidents of his determination   prior to disclosure of the   records, unless a shorter time period is required in the circumstances set forth in section 1270.44 of the   regulations. Copies of the notice for the incumbent President shall be delivered to the President (through the Counsel to the President) and the Attorney General (through the Assistant Attorney General for  ). The copy of the notice for the former President shall be delivered to the former President or his designated representative.

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 6.

Revocation.

Executive Order    , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
