Executive Order  —Enhancing Coordination of National Efforts in the Arctic
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and to prepare the Nation for a changing Arctic and enhance coordination of national efforts in the Arctic, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. The Arctic has critical long-term strategic, ecological, cultural, and economic value, and it is imperative that we continue to protect our national interests in the region, which include: national defense; sovereign rights and responsibilities; maritime safety; energy and economic benefits; environmental stewardship; promotion of science and research; and preservation of the rights, freedoms, and uses of the sea as reflected in international law.

Over  , climate change has caused the Alaskan Arctic to warm twice as rapidly as the rest of  , and will continue to transform the Arctic as its consequences grow more severe. Over  , higher atmospheric temperatures have led to a steady and dramatic reduction in Arctic sea ice, widespread glacier retreat, increasing coastal erosion, more acidic oceans,  , thawing permafrost, drier landscapes, and more extensive insect outbreaks and wildfires, thus changing the accessibility and natural features of this remote region. As a global leader,   has the responsibility to strengthen international cooperation to mitigate the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate change, understand more fully and manage more effectively the adverse effects of climate change, protect life and property, develop and manage resources responsibly, enhance the quality of life of Arctic inhabitants, and serve as stewards for valuable and vulnerable ecosystems. In doing so, we must rely on science-based decisionmaking and respect the value and utility of the traditional knowledge of   peoples. As   assumes the Chairmanship of  , it is more important than ever that we have a coordinated national effort that takes advantage of our combined expertise and efforts in the Arctic region to promote our shared values and priorities.

As the Arctic has changed, the number of Federal working groups created to address the growing strategic importance and accessibility of this critical region has increased. Although these groups have made significant progress and achieved important milestones, managing the broad range of interagency activity in the Arctic requires coordinated planning by  , with input by partners and stakeholders, to facilitate Federal,  , local, and   tribal government and similar   Native organization, as well as private and nonprofit sector, efforts in the Arctic.

 . 2

.

 

. (a) Establishment. There is established an   (Steering Committee), which shall provide guidance to executive departments and agencies (agencies) and enhance coordination of   policies across agencies and offices, and, where applicable, with  , local, and   tribal governments and similar   Native organizations, academic and research institutions, and the private and nonprofit sectors.

(b)

Membership

. The   shall consist of:

(i) the heads, or their designees, of  ,  ,  , and  ;

(ii) the Executive Officer of  , who shall be designated by the Chair of the Steering Committee (Chair); and

(iii) the Deputy Secretary or equivalent officer from    , Justice,  ,  ,  , Transportation, Energy, and  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ; and  ; the Assistant to the President for Public Engagement and  , or his or her designee; and other agencies or offices as determined appropriate by the  .

(c)

Administration

.

(i) The Director of  , or his or her designee, shall be the Chair of  . The Assistant to the President for  , or his or her designee, shall be the Vice Chair. Under the leadership of the  ,   will meet  , or as appropriate, to shape priorities, establish strategic direction, oversee implementation, and ensure coordination of Federal activities in the Arctic.

(ii) The   shall coordinate with existing working groups established by Executive   or statute.

(iii) As appropriate, the Chair of the Steering Committee may establish subcommittees and working groups, consisting of representatives from relevant agencies, to focus on specific key issues and assist in carrying out its responsibilities.

(iv) Agencies shall provide administrative support and additional resources, as appropriate, to support their participation in   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. Each agency shall bear its own expenses for supporting its participation in   and associated working groups.

(v) Each member of the   shall provide the Executive Officer with a single point of contact for coordinating efforts with interagency partners, collaborating with  , local, and   tribal governments and similar   Native organizations, and assisting in carrying out the functions and duties assigned by  .

 . 3

.

Responsibilities of  

.  , in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies and under the direction of the  , shall:

(a) provide guidance and coordinate efforts to implement the priorities, objectives, activities, and responsibilities identified in   Directive 66/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 25, Arctic Region Policy,   and its Implementation Plan, and related agency plans;

(b) provide guidance on prioritizing   activities, consistent with agency authorities, while   is Chair of  , including, where appropriate, recommendations for resources to use in carrying out those activities; and

(c) establish a working group to provide a report to   by  , that:

(i) identifies potential areas of overlap between and within agencies with respect to implementation of Arctic policy and strategic priorities and provides recommendations to increase coordination and reduce any duplication of effort, which may include ways to increase the effectiveness of existing groups; and

(ii) provides recommendations to address any potential gaps in implementation.

 . 4

.

Duties of the Executive Officer

. The Executive Officer shall be responsible for facilitating interagency coordination efforts related to implementing the guidance and strategic priorities developed by  . The Executive Officer shall coordinate with the   and the Special Advisor on Arctic Science and Policy at   to provide regular reports to   on agency implementation and planning efforts for the Arctic region.

 . 5

.

Engagement with  ,   Tribal Governments, as well as other  

. It is in the best interest of   to maximize transparency and promote collaboration where possible with  ,   tribal governments and similar   Native organizations, and local, private-sector, and nonprofit-sector stakeholders. To facilitate consultation and partnerships with   and   tribal governments and similar   Native organizations, the   shall:

(a) develop a process to improve coordination and the sharing of information and knowledge among  ,  , local, and   tribal governments and similar   Native organizations, and private-sector and nonprofit-sector groups on Arctic issues;

(b) establish a process to ensure tribal consultation and collaboration, consistent with my memorandum of   ( ). This process shall ensure meaningful consultation and collaboration with   tribal governments and similar   Native organizations in the development of Federal policies that have   implications, as applicable, and provide feedback and recommendations to  ;

(c) identify an appropriate Federal entity to be the point of contact for Arctic matters with   and with   tribal governments and similar   Native organizations to support collaboration and communication; and

(d) invite members of  , local, and   tribal governments and similar   Native organizations, and academic and research institutions to consult on issues or participate in discussions, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
