Executive Order  —Establishment of the President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to continue to strengthen the  's economy and ensure the competitiveness of   and to create jobs, opportunity, and prosperity for the   people by ensuring the availability of non-partisan advice to the President from participants in and experts on the economy, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

There is hereby established within   the President's   ( ). The   shall consist of members appointed by the President from among distinguished citizens outside   and shall include citizens chosen to serve as representatives of the various sectors of the economy to offer the diverse perspectives of the private sector, employers, and workers on how   can best foster growth, competitiveness, innovation, and job creation. The members may also include citizens selected based on their expertise and experience to offer independent advice. The President shall designate a   from among the members. A   of the President's   who is not serving in   and the   and Vice Chair of the President's   shall serve as ex-officio members. The   may provide the   with a staff, as necessary.

 . 2.

The functions of the   are advisory only. The   shall meet regularly and shall:

(a) solicit ideas from across the country about how to bolster the economy and the prosperity of the   people that can inform the decisionmaking of the President, and with respect to matters deemed appropriate by the President, provide information and recommendations to any executive department or agency (agency) with responsibilities related to the economy, growth, innovation,   competitiveness, or job creation;

(b) report directly to the President on the design, implementation, and evaluation of policies to promote the growth of the   economy, enhance the skills and education of  , maintain a stable and sound financial and banking system, create stable jobs for   workers, and improve the long-term prosperity and competitiveness of the   people; and

(c) provide analysis and information with respect to the operation, regulation, and healthy functioning of the economy and other factors that may contribute to the sustainable growth and competitiveness of   industry and the   labor force. As deemed appropriate by the President, this analysis and information shall be provided to the Chairman of   of  ,  , or any agency with responsibilities related to the economy, growth, innovation,   competitiveness, or job creation.

 . 3.

Administration of the  .

(a) All agencies and all offices within   of the President shall cooperate with the   and provide such information and assistance to the   as the Chair of the   may request, to the extent permitted by law.

(b)   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(c) Members of the   shall serve without compensation but may receive transportation expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

 . 4.

Termination.

The   shall terminate   after the date of this order unless extended by the President.

 . 5.

Revocation of Executive Order  .

Executive Order   of   (Establishing the President's  ), is hereby revoked.

 . 6.

General Provisions.

(a) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under the Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by the Secretary of the   in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
