Executive Order  —Further Amendments to Executive Order  , Equal Employment Opportunity in  , and Executive Order  , Equal Employment Opportunity
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including 40 U.S.C. 121, and in order to provide for a uniform policy for   to prohibit discrimination and take further steps to promote economy and efficiency in   procurement by prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Amending Executive Order  

. The first sentence of section 1 of Executive Order   of  , as amended, is revised by substituting "sexual orientation, gender identity" for "sexual orientation".

Sec. 2

.

Amending Executive Order  

. Executive   of  , as amended, is hereby further amended as follows:

(a) The first sentence of numbered paragraph (1) of section 202 is revised by substituting "sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin" for "sex, or national origin".

(b) The second sentence of numbered paragraph (1) of section 202 is revised by substituting "sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin" for "sex or national origin".

(c) Numbered paragraph (2) of section 202 is revised by substituting "sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin" for "sex or national origin".

(d) Paragraph (d) of section 203 is revised by substituting "sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin" for "sex or national origin".

 . 3

.

Regulations

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall prepare regulations to implement the requirements of section 2 of this order.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an agency or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 5

.

Effective Date

. This order shall become effective immediately, and section 2 of this order shall apply to contracts entered into on or after the effective date of the rules promulgated by   under section 3 of this order.

 

 ,  .

[Filed with  , 11:15 a.m.,  ]

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
