Executive Order  —  the National Emergency With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 5 of   (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , in order to take additional steps to deal with the national emergency with respect to the situation in   declared in Executive Order  , in view of   Resolution 2036 of  , and Resolution 2002 of  , and to address: exports of charcoal from  , which generate significant revenue for  ; the misappropriation of   public assets; and certain acts of violence committed against civilians in  , all of which contribute to the deterioration of the security situation and the persistence of violence in  , hereby order:

Section

1. Section 1(a) of Executive Order   is hereby amended to read as follows:

"(a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any foreign branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn or otherwise dealt in:

(i) the persons listed in the   to this order; and

(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  :

(A) to have engaged in acts that directly or indirectly threaten the peace, security, or stability of  , including but not limited to:

(1) acts that threaten the Djibouti Agreement of  , or the political process;

(2) acts that threaten   or future   governing institutions,   in   ( ), or other future international peacekeeping operations related to  ; or

(3) acts to misappropriate   public assets;

(B) to have obstructed the delivery of humanitarian assistance to  , or access to, or distribution of, humanitarian assistance in  ;

(C) to have directly or indirectly supplied, sold, or transferred to  , or to have been the recipient in the territory of   of, arms or any related materiel, or any technical advice, training or assistance, including financing and financial assistance, related to military activities;

(D) to be responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, or to have participated in, the commission of acts of violence targeting civilians in  , including killing and maiming, sexual and gender-based violence, attacks on schools and hospitals, taking hostages, and forced displacement;

(E) to be a political or military leader recruiting or using children in armed conflict in  ;

(F) to have engaged, directly or indirectly, in the import or export of charcoal from   on or after  ;

(G) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical or technical support for, or goods or services in support of, the activities described in subsections (a)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(H) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order."

Sec. 2

. (a) The importation into  , directly or indirectly, of charcoal from   is prohibited.

(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) of this section applies except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.

 . 3

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4

. For the purposes of this order: (a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d) the term "charcoal" means any product classifiable in heading   or   of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of  .

 . 5

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and the  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6.

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 7

. This order is effective at 2:00 p.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
