Executive Order 13698—Hostage Recovery Activities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , I hereby direct as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

.   has witnessed a significant shift in hostage-takings by terrorist organizations and criminal groups abroad. Hostage-takers frequently operate in unstable environments that challenge the ability of   and its partners and allies to operate effectively. Increasingly, hostage-takers target private citizens—including journalists and aid workers—as well as   officials. They also utilize increasingly sophisticated networks and tactics to derive financial, propaganda, and recruitment benefits from hostage-taking operations.   is committed to securing the safe recovery of   nationals held hostage abroad and deterring future hostage-takings by denying hostage-takers any benefits from their actions. Because such hostage-takings pose unique challenges,   must be organized and work in a coordinated effort to use all instruments of national power to achieve these goals, consistent with   no concessions policy. Establishing a single   operational body to coordinate all efforts for the recovery of   nationals taken hostage abroad, with policy guidance coordinated through  , will increase the likelihood of a successful recovery, allow for enhanced support to hostages and their families, promote foreign policy and national security interests abroad, and enhance the prospects of successful criminal prosecutions of hostage-takers. Dedicating a senior diplomatic representative to operate in support of this coordinated effort will further enhance the potential for the safe recovery of hostages.

 . 2

.

Establishment and Responsibilities of the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell

. (a) The Attorney General, acting through the Director of  ), shall establish within the   for administrative purposes an interagency   ( ).

(b) The following executive departments, agencies, and offices (agencies) shall participate in the  :

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi) the  ;

(vii)  ; and

(viii) other agencies as the President or the Attorney General, acting through the Director of the  , from time to time, may designate. (c) The   shall have a Director, who shall be a full-time senior officer or employee of, or detailed to, the  . The   shall also have a Family Engagement Coordinator and other officers or employees as appropriate. The head of each participating agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, make available for assignment or detail to the   such personnel as the Attorney General, acting through the Director of the   and after consultation with the head of the agency, may request. Such personnel so detailed or assigned will operate utilizing the clearances provided by their respective agencies.

(d) The   shall coordinate efforts by participating agencies to ensure that all relevant information, expertise, and resources are brought to bear to secure the safe recovery of   nationals held hostage abroad. The   may also be tasked with coordinating   response to other hostage-takings occurring abroad in which   has a national interest, as specifically referred to the   by  , as established in Presidential Policy Directive 1 of   ( ), or any successor. Pursuant to policy guidance coordinated through  , the   shall:

(i) identify and recommend hostage recovery options and strategies to the President through  ;

(ii) coordinate efforts by participating agencies to ensure that information regarding hostage events, including potential recovery options and engagements with families and external actors (including foreign governments), is appropriately shared within   to facilitate a coordinated response to a hostage-taking;

(iii) assess and track all hostage-takings of   nationals abroad and provide regular reports to the President through   on the status of such cases and any measures being taken toward the hostages' safe recovery;

(iv) provide a forum for intelligence sharing and, with the support of the Director of  , coordinate the declassification of relevant information;

(v) coordinate efforts by participating agencies to provide appropriate support and assistance to hostages and their families in a coordinated and consistent manner and to provide families with timely information regarding significant events in their cases;

(vi) make recommendations to agencies in order to reduce the likelihood of   nationals being taken hostage abroad and enhance   preparation to maximize the probability of a favorable outcome following a hostage-taking; and

(vii) coordinate with agencies regarding congressional, media, and other public inquiries pertaining to hostage events.

 . 3

.

Establishment of  

. (a) There shall be a   (HRG) chaired by the Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for  , to be convened on a regular basis and as needed at the request of   to further the safe recovery of   nationals held abroad. The   may also be tasked with coordinating   response to other hostage-takings occurring abroad in which   has a national interest, as specifically referred to the   by  .

(b) The regular members of the   shall include the Director of the  , the  's Family Engagement Coordinator, and senior representatives from    ,  ,  ,  , and other agencies as the President, from time to time, may designate.

(c) The  , in support of   chaired by the Assistant to the President for   and  , and consistent with the process outlined in Presidential Policy Directive 1 or any successor, shall:

(i) identify and recommend hostage recovery options and strategies to the President through  , as consistent with Presidential Policy Directive   (  and  );

(ii) coordinate the development and implementation of   hostage recovery policies, strategies, and procedures, consistent with the policies set forth in Presidential Policy Directive 30;

(iii) receive regular updates from the   on the status of   nationals being held hostage abroad and measures being taken to effect the hostages' safe recovery;

(iv) coordinate the provision of policy guidance to the  , including reviewing recovery options proposed by the   and working to resolve disputes within the  ; and

(v) where higher-level guidance is required, make recommendations to  .

 . 4

.

Establishment of the Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs

. (a) There shall be a Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs (Special Envoy), appointed by the President, who shall report to the Secretary of  .

(b) The Special Envoy shall:

(i) lead diplomatic engagement on   hostage policy;

(ii) coordinate all diplomatic engagements in support of hostage recovery efforts, in coordination with the   and consistent with policy guidance communicated through the  ;

(iii) coordinate with the   proposals for diplomatic engagements and strategy in support of hostage recovery efforts;

(iv) provide senior representation from the Special Envoy's office to the   and in the  ; and

(v) in coordination with the   as appropriate, coordinate diplomatic engagements regarding cases in which a foreign government confirms that it has detained a   national but   regards such detention as unlawful or wrongful.

 . 5

.

Reporting

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the   shall provide a status report to the Assistant to the President for   and   on the establishment of the   and its implementation of policy guidance communicated through the  .

(b) Within   of this order, the Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Attorney General, and Director of the  , shall provide a status report to the Assistant to the President for   and   on the implementation of this order. That report shall be informed by consultation with stakeholders outside of  , including former hostages and hostages' families, and shall, to the extent possible, be made available to the public.

 . 6

.

Definition

. For purposes of this order, the term "  national" means: (a) a   national as defined in either 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22) or 8 U.S.C. 1408; or (b) a lawful permanent resident alien with significant ties to  .

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law, regulation, Executive Order, or   to any executive department, agency, or head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
