Executive Order  —  to   and Certain Other Iraqi Property and   in Property Pursuant to Executive Order  , as Amended
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 5 of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , have determined that the situation that gave rise to the actions taken in Executive Order   of  , to protect   and certain other property in which   has an interest has been significantly altered. Recognizing the changed circumstances in  , including   progress in resolving and managing the risk associated with outstanding debts and claims arising from actions of the previous regime, I hereby terminate the prohibitions contained in section 1 of Executive Order   of  , as amended by Executive Order   of  , on any attachment, judgment, decree,  , execution, garnishment, or other judicial process with respect to   and   petroleum, petroleum products, and interests therein, and the accounts, assets, investments, and other property owned by, belonging to, or held by, in the name of, on behalf of, or otherwise for,  . This action is not intended otherwise to affect the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of  , as expanded in scope by Executive Order 13315 of  , which shall remain in place. This action is also not intended to affect immunities enjoyed by   and its property under otherwise applicable law.

I hereby order:

Section 1

. The prohibitions set forth in section 1 of Executive Order   of  , as amended by Executive Order   of  , are hereby terminated.

 . 2

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and the UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their statutory authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 3

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 4

. This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
