Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to promote international regulatory cooperation, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Policy.

Executive Order   ( ), states that our regulatory system must protect public health, welfare, safety, and our environment while promoting economic growth, innovation, competitiveness, and job creation. In an increasingly global economy, international regulatory cooperation, consistent with domestic law and prerogatives and   trade policy, can be an important means of promoting the goals of Executive Order  .

The regulatory approaches taken by foreign governments may differ from those taken by   regulatory agencies to address similar issues. In some cases, the differences between the regulatory approaches of   agencies and those of their foreign counterparts might not be necessary and might impair the ability of   businesses to export and compete internationally. In meeting shared challenges involving health, safety, labor, security, environmental, and other issues, international regulatory cooperation can identify approaches that are at least as protective as those that are or would be adopted in the absence of such cooperation. International regulatory cooperation can also reduce, eliminate, or prevent unnecessary differences in regulatory requirements.

 . 2.

Coordination of International Regulatory Cooperation.

(a)   ( ) established by Executive Order   ( ), which was reaffirmed by Executive  , shall, as appropriate:

(i) serve as a forum to discuss, coordinate, and develop a common understanding among agencies of   positions and priorities with respect to:

(A) international regulatory cooperation activities that are reasonably anticipated to lead to significant regulatory actions;

(B) efforts across   to support significant, cross-cutting international regulatory cooperation activities, such as the work of regulatory cooperation councils; and

(C) the promotion of good regulatory practices internationally, as well as the promotion of   regulatory approaches, as appropriate; and

(ii) examine, among other things:

(A) appropriate strategies for engaging in the development of regulatory approaches through international regulatory cooperation, particularly in emerging technology areas, when consistent with section 1 of this order;

(B) best practices for international regulatory cooperation with respect to regulatory development, and, where appropriate, information exchange and other regulatory tools; and

(C) factors that agencies should take into account when determining whether and how to consider other regulatory approaches under section 3(d) of this order.

(b) As Chair of  ,   (OIRA) of   (OMB) shall convene   as necessary to discuss international regulatory cooperation issues as described above, and   shall include a representative from   and, as appropriate, representatives from other agencies and offices.

(c) The activities of  , consistent with law, shall not duplicate the efforts of existing interagency bodies and coordination mechanisms.   shall consult with existing interagency bodies when appropriate.

(d) To inform its discussions, and pursuant to section 4 of Executive Order  ,   may commission analytical reports and studies by  ,  , or any other relevant agency, and   may solicit input, from time to time, from representatives of business, nongovernmental organizations, and the public.

(e)   shall develop and issue guidelines on the applicability and implementation of sections 2 through 4 of this order.

(f) For purposes of this order,   shall operate by consensus.

 . 3.

Responsibilities of Federal Agencies.

To the extent permitted by law, and consistent with the principles and requirements of Executive Order   and Executive Order  , each agency shall:

(a) if required to submit a Regulatory Plan pursuant to Executive Order  , include in that plan a summary of its international regulatory cooperation activities that are reasonably anticipated to lead to significant regulations, with an explanation of how these activities advance the purposes of Executive Order   and this order;

(b) ensure that significant regulations that the agency identifies as having significant international impacts are designated as such in the Unified Agenda of  , on RegInfo.gov, and on  ;

(c) in selecting which regulations to include in its retrospective review plan, as required by Executive  , consider:

(i) reforms to existing significant regulations that address unnecessary differences in regulatory requirements between   and its major trading partners, consistent with section 1 of this order, when stakeholders provide adequate information to the agency establishing that the differences are unnecessary; and

(ii) such reforms in other circumstances as the agency deems appropriate; and

(d) for significant regulations that the agency identifies as having significant international impacts, consider, to the extent feasible, appropriate, and consistent with law, any regulatory approaches by a foreign government that   has agreed to consider under a regulatory cooperation council work plan.

 . 4.

Definitions.

For purposes of this order:

(a) "Agency" means any authority of   that is an "agency" under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

(b) "International impact" is a direct effect that a proposed or final regulation is expected to have on international trade and investment, or that otherwise may be of significant interest to the trading partners of  .

(c) "International regulatory cooperation" refers to a bilateral, regional, or multilateral process, other than processes that are covered by section 6(a)(ii), (iii), and (v) of this order, in which national governments engage in various forms of collaboration and communication with respect to regulations, in particular a process that is reasonably anticipated to lead to the development of significant regulations.

(d) "Regulation" shall have the same meaning as "regulation" or "rule" in section 3(d) of Executive Order  .

(e) "Significant regulation" is a proposed or final regulation that constitutes a significant regulatory action.

(f) "Significant regulatory action" shall have the same meaning as in section 3(f) of Executive Order  .

 . 5.

 .

Independent regulatory agencies are encouraged to comply with the provisions of this order.

 . 6.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof;

(ii) the coordination and development of international trade policy and negotiations pursuant to section 411 of the Trade Agreements Act of   (19 U.S.C.  ) and section 141 of the Trade Act of   (19 U.S.C.  );

(iii) international trade activities undertaken pursuant to section 3 of the Act of   (15 U.S.C.  ), subtitle   of  , as amended (15 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2171 note);

(iv) the authorization process for the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(c) and its implementing regulations (22   181.4) and implementing procedures (11 FAM 720);

(v) activities in connection with subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31 of the United States Code, title 26 of the United States Code, or Public Law 111-203 and other laws relating to financial regulation; or

(vi) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
