Executive Order  —Termination of Emergency With Respect to the Actions and Policies of Former   President  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 5 of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that the situation that gave rise to the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order  , with respect to the actions and policies of former   President   and other persons, in particular their unlawful depletion of   resources and their removal from   and secreting of   funds and property, has been significantly altered by  's significant advances to promote democracy and the orderly development of its political, administrative, and economic institutions, including presidential elections in   and  , which were internationally recognized as freely held; the   conviction of, and   prison sentence for, former   President   and the affirmation on appeal of that conviction and sentence; and the diminished ability of those connected to former   President   to undermine  's progress. Accordingly, I hereby terminate the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , revoke that order, and further order:

Section 1

. Pursuant to section 202(a) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1622(a)), termination of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the effective date of this order, any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to the effective date, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to the effective date of this order.

 . 2

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 3

. (a) This order is effective at 2:00 p.m. eastern standard time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
