Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to advance   foreign policy and protect the national and economic security of   through strengthened and coordinated enforcement of   export control laws and enhanced intelligence exchange in support of such enforcement efforts, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Policy.

Export controls are critical to achieving our national security and foreign policy goals. To enhance our enforcement efforts and minimize enforcement conflicts, executive departments and agencies must coordinate their efforts to detect, prevent, disrupt, investigate, and prosecute violations of   export control laws, and must share intelligence and law enforcement information related to these efforts to the maximum extent possible, consistent with national security and applicable law.

 . 2.

Establishment.

(a) The Secretary of   shall establish, within   for administrative purposes, an interagency  ).

(b) The Center shall coordinate on matters relating to export enforcement among the following:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ; and

(ix) other executive branch departments, agencies, or offices as the President, from time to time, may designate.

(c) The Center shall have a Director, who shall be a full-time senior officer or employee of  , designated by the Secretary of  . The Center shall have two Deputy Directors, who shall be full-time senior officers or employees of   and  , designated by the Secretary of   and the Attorney General, respectively, detailed to the   and reporting to the Director. The   shall also have an  , who shall be a full-time senior officer or employee of  , designated by the Director of  , and detailed or assigned to the  .

(d) The Center shall have a full-time staff reporting to the Director. To the extent permitted by law, executive departments and agencies enumerated in subsection (b) of this section are encouraged to detail or assign their employees to the   without reimbursement.

 . 3.

Functions.

The Center shall:

(a) serve as the primary forum within   for executive departments and agencies to coordinate and enhance their export control enforcement efforts and identify and resolve conflicts that have not been otherwise resolved in criminal and administrative investigations and actions involving violations of   export control laws;

(b) serve as a conduit between   agencies and   for the exchange of information related to potential   export control violations;

(c) serve as a primary point of contact between enforcement authorities and agencies engaged in export licensing;

(d) coordinate law enforcement public outreach activities related to   export controls; and

(e) establish Government-wide statistical tracking capabilities for   criminal and administrative export control enforcement activities, to be conducted by   with information provided by and shared with all relevant departments and agencies participating in the  .

 . 4.

Administration.

(a)   shall operate and provide funding and administrative support for the Center to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b) The Director of the   shall convene and preside at the  's meetings, determine its agenda, direct the work of the Center, and, as appropriate to particular subject matters, organize and coordinate subgroups of the  's members.

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law, regulation, Executive Order, or   to an executive department, agency, or head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) Nothing in this order shall be construed to provide exclusive or primary investigative authority to any agency. Agencies shall continue to investigate criminal and administrative export violations consistent with their existing authorities, jointly or separately, with coordination through the Center to enhance enforcement efforts and minimize potential for conflict.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
