Executive Order  —Employment of   in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1.

Policy.

  have served and sacrificed in defense of our Nation. When they complete their service, we must do everything in our power to assist them in re-entering civilian life and finding employment. Government as well as private employers should play a prominent role in helping veterans who may be struggling to find jobs. As one of the  's leading employers,   is in need of highly skilled individuals to meet agency staffing needs and to support mission objectives. Our veterans, who have benefited from training and development during their military service, possess a wide variety of skills and experiences, as well as the motivation for public service, that will help fulfill Federal agencies' staffing needs. It is therefore the policy of my Administration to enhance recruitment of and promote employment opportunities for veterans within the executive branch, consistent with merit system principles and veterans' preferences prescribed by law.   will thereby help lead by example in promoting veterans' employment.

 . 2.

Council on  .

There is hereby established an interagency  ), to be co-chaired by the Secretaries of Labor and  . The Director of   (OPM) shall serve as Vice Chair of the  .

(a) Mission and Function of the  . The   shall:

(i) advise and assist the President and the Director of   in establishing a coordinated Government-wide effort to increase the number of veterans employed by   by enhancing recruitment and training;

(ii) serve as a national forum for promoting veterans' employment opportunities in the executive branch; and

(iii) establish performance measures to assess the effectiveness of, and submit an   report to the President on the status of,   described in section 3 of this order.

(b) Membership of the  . The   shall consist of the heads of the following agencies and such other executive branch agencies as the President may designate:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ;

(xiii)  ;

( )  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi)  ;

(xvii)  ;

(xviii) the Agency for International Development;

(xix)  ;

(xx)  ;

(xxi)  ;

(xxii)  ;

(xxiii)  ; and

(xxiv)  .

A member of the   may designate, to perform the   functions of the member, a senior official who is part of the member's agency, and who is a full-time officer or employee of  .

(c) Administration of the  .   shall convene meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work. At the direction of  , the   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees, as appropriate. The Vice Chair shall designate an Executive Director for the   to support the Vice Chair in managing the  's activities. The   shall provide administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(d)  . There is established within   consisting of  ,  , and  , the Director of  , and any other   member designated by  . The   shall be responsible for providing leadership, accountability, and strategic direction to the  .

 . 3.

Veterans Employment Initiative.

The agencies represented on the   shall participate in a   (Initiative). Under the  , each participating agency shall, to the extent permitted by law:

(a) develop an agency-specific   for promoting employment opportunities for veterans, consistent with the  -wide   Employment Strategic Plan described in section 4 of this order, merit system principles, the agency's strategic human capital plan, and other applicable workforce planning strategies and initiatives;

(b) within   of the date of this order, establish a  , or designate an agency officer or employee with full-time responsibility for its  , to be responsible for enhancing employment opportunities for veterans within the agency, consistent with law and merit system principles, including developing and implementing the agency's  , veterans recruitment programs, and training programs for veterans with disabilities, and for coordinating employment counseling to help match the career aspirations of veterans to the needs of the agency;

(c) provide mandatory   training to agency human resources personnel and hiring managers concerning veterans' employment, including training on veterans' preferences and special authorities for the hiring of veterans;

(d) identify key occupations for which the agency will provide job counseling and training to better enable veterans to meet agency staffing needs associated with those occupations; and

(e) coordinate with   and   to promote further development and application of technology designed to assist transitioning service members and veterans with disabilities.

 . 4.

Additional Responsibilities of the Director of  .

The Director of OPM shall, in consultation with the   and to the extent permitted by law:

(a) develop a  -wide   Employment Strategic Plan, to be updated at least every 3 years, addressing barriers to the employment of veterans in the executive branch and focusing on:

(i) identifying actions that agency leaders should take to improve employment opportunities for veterans;

(ii) developing the skills of transitioning military service members and veterans;

(iii) marketing   as an employer of choice to transitioning service members and veterans;

(iv) marketing the talent, experience, and dedication of transitioning service members and veterans to Federal agencies; and

(v) disseminating Federal employment information to veterans and hiring officials;

(b) provide Government-wide leadership in recruitment and employment of veterans in the executive branch;

(c) identify key occupations, focusing on positions in high-demand occupations where talent is needed to meet Government-wide staffing needs, for which   will provide job counseling and training under section 5(a) of this order to veterans and transitioning military service personnel;

(d) develop mandatory training for both human resources personnel and hiring managers on veterans' employment, including veterans' preference and special hiring authorities;

(e) compile and post on the   website Government-wide statistics on the hiring of veterans; and

(f) within   of this order and with the advice of the  , provide recommendations to the President on improving the ability of veterans' preference laws to meet the needs of the new generation of veterans, especially those transitioning from the conflicts in   and  , and the needs of Federal hiring officials.

 . 5.

Responsibilities of the Secretaries of Defense, Labor,  , and  .

The Secretaries of Defense, Labor,  , and   shall take the following actions, to the extent permitted by law:

(a) The Secretaries of Defense, Labor,  , and   shall, in consultation with  , develop and implement counseling and training programs to align veterans' and transitioning service members' skills and career aspirations to Federal employment opportunities, targeting Federal occupations that are projected to have heavy recruitment needs.

(b) The Secretary of   shall conduct employment workshops for veterans and transitioning military service personnel as part of   ( ), and integrate in those workshops information about the   hiring process, veterans' preference laws, special hiring authorities, and Federal job opportunities.

(c) The Secretary of   and Secretary of   (with respect to  ) shall:

(i) reinforce military leadership's commitment and support of the service members' transition process; and

(ii) institute policies that encourage every eligible service member to take the opportunity to enroll in any or all of the four components of the  .

(d) The Secretaries of Labor and   shall:

(i) assist veterans and transitioning service members in translating military skills, training, and education to Federal occupations through programs developed under subsection (a) of this section; and

(ii) provide training to employment and rehabilitation counselors on the   hiring process, veterans' preferences, special hiring authorities, and identifying Federal employment opportunities for veterans.

 . 6.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
