Executive Order  —Establishing an Emergency Board To Investigate a Dispute Between   and Its Locomotive Engineers Represented by   and Trainmen
 
 

A dispute exists between   (SEPTA) and its   represented by  ).

The dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, 45 U.S.C. 151-188 (RLA).

A first emergency board to investigate and report on this dispute and disputes involving other   employees represented by other labor organizations was established on  , by Executive Order  . The emergency board terminated upon issuance of its report. Subsequently, its recommendations were not accepted by the parties to this dispute.

A party empowered by the   has requested that the President establish a second emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the   (45 U.S.C. 159a).

Section 9A(e) of the   provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint an emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute.

Now, Therefore

, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 9A of the  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment of Emergency Board (Board)

. There is established, effective 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , a Board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate and report on this dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.

 . 2.

Report

. Within   after the creation of the Board, the parties to the dispute shall submit to the   final offers for settlement of the dispute. Within   after the submission of final offers for settlement of the dispute, the   shall submit a report to the President setting forth its selection of the most reasonable offer.

 . 3.

Maintaining Conditions

. As provided by section 9A(h) of the  , from the time a request to establish a second emergency board is made until   after the   submits its report to the President, no change in the conditions out of which the dispute arose shall be made by the parties to the controversy, except by agreement of the parties.

 . 4.

Records Maintenance

. The records and files of the   are records of   and upon the  's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of  .

 . 5.

Expiration

. The   shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in section 2 of this order.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
