Executive Order 13515—Increasing Participation of     and   in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy.

The more than 16 million     and   (AAPIs) across our country have helped build a strong and vibrant  . The   communities represent many ethnicities and languages that span generations, and their shared achievements are an important part of the   experience. They have started businesses and generated jobs, including founding some of our  's most successful and innovative enterprises. The   communities have made important contributions to science and technology, culture and the arts, and the professions, including business, law, medicine, education, and politics.

While we acknowledge the many contributions of the   communities to our  , we also recognize the challenges still faced by many AAPIs. Of the more than a million AAPI-owned businesses, many firms are small sole-proprietorships that continue to need assistance to access available resources such as business development counseling and small business loans. The   community also continues to face barriers to employment and workplace advancement. Specific challenges experienced by   subgroups include lower college-enrollment rates by   than other ethnic groups and high poverty rates among  ,  ,  , and other individual AAPI communities. Additionally, one in five non-elderly AAPIs lacks health insurance.

The purpose of this order is to establish a President's   on     and   and   Initiative on     and  . Each will work to improve the quality of life and opportunities for     and   through increased access to, and participation in, Federal programs in which they may be underserved. In addition, each will work to advance relevant evidence-based research, data collection, and analysis for   populations and subpopulations.

 . 2. President's   on     and  .

There is established in   the President's   on     and  ).

(a)

Mission and Function of the Commission.

The   shall provide advice to the President, through   and  , as   of the   described in section 3 of this order, on: (i) the development, monitoring, and coordination of executive branch efforts to improve the quality of life of AAPIs through increased participation in Federal programs in which such persons may be underserved; (ii) the compilation of research and data related to   populations and subpopulations; (iii) the development, monitoring, and coordination of Federal efforts to improve the economic and community development of   businesses; and (iv) strategies to increase public and private-sector collaboration, and community involvement in improving the health, education, environment, and well-being of AAPIs.

(b)

Membership of the Commission.

The   shall consist of not more than 20 members appointed by the President. The   shall include members who: (i) have a history of involvement with the   communities; (ii) are from the fields of education, commerce, business, health, human services, housing, environment, arts, agriculture, labor and employment, transportation, justice,  , and economic and community development; (iii) are from civic associations representing one or more of the diverse   communities; or (iv) have such other experience as the President deems appropriate. The President shall designate one member of the   to serve as  , who shall convene regular meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work.

(c)

Administration of the Commission.

The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall designate an Executive Director for the  .   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ). Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the administration of the  , any functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

(d)

Termination Date.

The   shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless renewed by the President.

 . 3.   Initiative on     and  .

There is established   Initiative on     and   (Initiative), a   interagency working group whose members shall be selected by their respective agencies. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall serve as   of the Initiative. The Executive Director of the   established in section 2 of this order shall also serve as the Executive Director of the   and shall report to the Secretaries on Initiative matters.

(a)

Mission and Function of the  .

The Initiative shall work to improve the quality of life of AAPIs through increased participation in Federal programs in which AAPIs may be underserved. The Initiative shall advise   on the implementation and coordination of Federal programs as they relate to AAPIs across executive departments and agencies.

(b)

Membership of the  .

In addition to  , the   shall consist of senior officials from the following executive branch departments, agencies, and offices:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ;

(xiii)  ;

( )  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi)  ;

(xvii)  ;

(xviii)  ;

(xix)  ;

(xx)   and Public Engagement;

(xxi)  ;

(xxii)  ;

(xxiii)  ; and

(xxiv) other executive branch departments, agencies, and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.

At the direction of  , the   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees under this section, as appropriate.

(c)

Administration of the  .

  shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.   shall convene regular meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work.

(d)

Federal Agency Plans and  .

Each executive department and agency designated by the   shall prepare a plan (agency plan) for, and shall document, its efforts to improve the quality of life of     and   through increased participation in Federal programs in which     and Pacific Islanders may be underserved. Where appropriate, this agency plan shall address, among other things, the agency's efforts to:

(i) identify Federal programs in which AAPIs may be underserved and improve the quality of life for AAPIs through increased participation in these programs;

(ii) identify ways to foster the recruitment, career development, and advancement of AAPIs in  ;

(iii) identify high-priority action items for which measurable progress may be achieved within   to improve the health, environment, opportunity, and well-being of AAPIs, and implement those action items;

(iv) increase public-sector, private-sector, and community involvement in improving the health, environment, opportunity, and well-being of AAPIs;

(v) foster evidence-based research, data-collection, and analysis on   populations and subpopulations, including research and data on public health, environment, education, housing, employment, and other economic indicators of   community well-being; and

(vi) solicit public input from   communities on ways to increase and improve opportunities for public participation in Federal programs considering a number of factors, including language barriers.

Each agency, in its plan, shall provide appropriate measurable objectives and, after  , shall provide for the assessment of that agency's performance on the goals set in   plan. Each agency plan shall be submitted to   by a date to be established by  .   shall review the agency plans and develop for submission to the President a Federal interagency plan to improve the quality of life of AAPIs through increased participation in Federal programs in which such persons may be underserved. Actions described in the   interagency plan shall address improving access by AAPIs to Federal programs and fostering advances in relevant research and data.

 . 4.  .

(a) This order supersedes Executive Order  , and Executive Order   of  .

(b) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the  . Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expenses of participating in the  .

(c) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(d) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(e) For purposes of this order, the term "    and Pacific Islander" includes persons within the jurisdiction of   having ancestry of any of the original peoples of East Asia, Southeast Asia, or South Asia, or any of the aboriginal, indigenous, or native peoples of   and other Pacific Islands.

(f) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
