Executive Order  —Termination of Emergency With Respect to the Actions and Policies of the Government of Burma
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 570 of  , and Related Programs Appropriations Act,   (Public Law 104-208), the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act of   (Public Law 108-61),   JADE (Junta's  ) Act of   (Public Law 110-286) (the "JADE Act"), section 212(f) of    , as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)) (INA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that the situation that gave rise to the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order   of  , with respect to the actions and policies of  , in particular a deepening pattern of severe repression by  , the then-governing regime in  , as modified in scope by Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , has been significantly altered by  's substantial advances to promote democracy, including historic elections in   that resulted in the former opposition party,  , winning a majority of seats in the national parliament and the formation of a democratically elected, civilian-led government; the release of many political prisoners; and greater enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and freedom of association and peaceful assembly. Accordingly, I hereby terminate the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and revoke that order, Executive Order  , Executive  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , and further order:

Section 1

. Pursuant to section 202(a) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1622(a)), termination of the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , as modified in scope by Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the effective date of this order, any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to the effective date of this order, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to the effective date of this order.

 . 2

. Pursuant to section 5(i) of the JADE Act, I hereby determine and certify that it is in the national interest of   to waive, and hereby waive, the sanctions described in section 5(b) of the JADE Act.

 . 3

. In light of the revocation of Executive Order  , Executive  , and Executive Order  , the suspension of entry as immigrants and nonimmigrants, pursuant to Presidential Proclamation 8693 of  , and section 212(f) of the INA, of individuals meeting the criteria in said orders will no longer be in effect as of the effective date of this order. In light of the revocation of Executive Order  , the suspension of entry as immigrants and nonimmigrants of individuals meeting the criteria in that order will no longer be in effect as of the effective date of this order and such individuals will no longer be treated as persons covered by Presidential Proclamation 8693.

 . 4

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 5

. This order is effective at 1:00 p.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
