Executive Order  —Establishing the President's  
 
 

WHEREAS   has initiated a program for the development of commercial supersonic aircraft; and

WHEREAS supersonic transport will advance technical knowledge, expand our international trade, strengthen our manufacturing capability, and provide employment for thousands of our citizens; and

WHEREAS the development of supersonic transport will require the participation and assistance of various Federal agencies as well as private manufacturing and transportation interests; and

WHEREAS the development of supersonic transport will involve heavy expenditures of money and resources and it is therefore essential that the activities of the   agencies concerned be coordinated at the highest level:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall be composed of the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , the Administrator of  , and such other members as the President may from time to time appoint. The Secretary of   shall serve as Chairman of the  .

 . 2. The   shall study, and shall advise and make recommendations to the President with regard to, all aspects of the supersonic transport program. The   shall devote particular attention to the financial aspects of the program and shall maintain close coordination with the Director of   in this regard.

 . 3. All Federal departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   and furnish it with such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its duties.

 . 4. Members of the   who are officers or employees of the   shall receive no additional compensation by reason of such membership. Other members of the   shall be entitled to receive compensation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving the government intermittently (5 U.S.C. 73b—2).

 . 5.   and agency represented on the   shall furnish necessary assistance to the   in accordance with section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include the detailing of employees, including consultants and experts, to the   to perform such functions consistent with the purposes of this   as the   may assign.

 

 ,

 .
