Executive Order  —Establishment of the Great Lakes Basin Commission
 
 

WHEREAS   (hereinafter referred to as the Act, 79 Stat. 244,   U.S.C.   et seq.) authorizes the President to declare the establishment of a river basin water and related land resources commission when a request for such a commission is addressed in writing to   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) by the Governor of a   within which all or part of the basin or basins concerned are located and when such a request is concurred in by the   and by not less than one-half of the States within which portions of the basin or basins concerned are located; and

WHEREAS the  , by resolution adopted  , concurred in the requests of the Governors of the States of  ,  ,  ,  , and  , which have been concurred in by the Governors of Illinois,  , and  ; and did itself request that the President declare the establishment of the Great Lakes Basin Commission under the provisions of section 201 of the Act; and

WHEREAS the requests of the Governors of the States of  ,  ,  ,  , and  , and the resolution of  , together with written concurrences by the Governors of  ,  , and  , satisfy the formal requirements of section 201 of the Act; and

WHEREAS it appears that it would be in the public interest and in keeping with the intent of   to declare the establishment of such a Commission:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 201 of the Act, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.  . It is hereby declared that the Great Lakes Basin Commission is established under the provisions of Title II of the Act.

 . 2.  . It is hereby determined that the jurisdiction of the Great Lakes Basin Commission referred to in section 1 of this order (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) shall extend to those portions of the eight    ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   that are drained by the St. Lawrence River system, including the Great Lakes, their tributaries, and tributaries to   which reach that river within  , in accordance with the requests of the Governors of  ,  ,  ,  , and  , concurred in by the Governors of Illinois,  , and  , and in accordance with the resolutions of the  .

 . 3. Membership of the Commission. It is hereby determined that, in accordance with section 202 of the Act, the   shall consist of the following:

(1) a Chairman to be appointed by the President,

(2) one member from each of the following   departments and agencies:  ,    , and  ,  , and  , such member to be appointed by the head of each department or independent agency he represents,

(3) one member from each of the following  :  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , and

(4) one member from each interstate agency created by an interstate compact to which the consent of   has been given and whose jurisdiction extends to the waters of the area specified in section 2.

 . 4. Functions to be performed. The   and its Chairman, members, and employees are hereby authorized to perform and exercise, with respect to the jurisdiction specified in section 2 of this order, the functions, powers, and duties of such a   and of such Chairman, members, and employees, respectively, as set out in Title II of the Act.

 . 5. International coordination. The Chairman of the   is hereby authorized and directed to refer to the   any matters under consideration by the   which relate to the areas of interest or jurisdiction of  ,   and  , and the Great Lakes Fishery Commission. The   shall consult on these matters as appropriate with   and with   and   through their United States Sections for the purpose of enhancing international coordination.

 . 6. Reporting to the President. The Chairman of the   shall report to the President through the  .

 

 

 
