Executive Order 11150—Establishing   for  
 
 

WHEREAS the people of the State of   have experienced death, injury and property loss and damage of staggering proportions as a result of the earthquake of  ; and

WHEREAS the President, acting pursuant to authority granted in the Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.  g), has declared a major disaster in those areas of   adversely affected by the earthquake beginning on  ; and

WHEREAS   and   desire to cooperate in the prompt reconstruction of the damaged   communities; and

WHEREAS the Federal and State Governments have a common interest in assuring the most effective use of   and State programs and funds in advancing reconstruction and the long-range development of the  ; and

WHEREAS such effective use is dependent upon coordination of Federal and State programs, including emergency reconstruction activities, which affect general economic development of the   and the long-range conservation and use of natural resources; and

WHEREAS the Governor of   has declared his intention to establish a   commission for reconstruction and development planning:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established   for   (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of a Chairman, who shall be designated by the President, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Administrator of  ,  ,  , the Chairman of  , and, so long as the President's declaration of a major disaster is in effect, the Director of  . Each agency head may designate an alternate to represent him at meetings of the   which he is unable to attend.

(c) The Chairman may request the head of any   executive department or agency who is not a member of the   under the provisions of subsection (b), above, to participate in meetings of the   concerned with matters of substantial interest to such department or agency head.

(d) The President shall designate an Executive Director of the  , whose compensation shall be fixed in accordance with the standards and procedures of the Classification Act of  , as amended.

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The   shall develop coordinated plans for Federal programs which contribute to reconstruction and to economic and resources development in   and shall recommend appropriate action by   to carry out such plans.

(b) When the Governor of   has designated representatives of   for purposes related to this order, the   shall cooperate with such representatives in accomplishing the following:

(1) Making or arranging for surveys and studies to provide data for the development of plans and programs for reconstruction and for economic and resources development in  .

(2) Preparing coordinated plans for reconstruction and economic and resources development in   deemed appropriate to carry out existing statutory responsibilities of  , and local agencies. Such plans shall be designed to promote optimum benefits from the expenditure of  , and local funds for consistent objectives and purposes.

(3) Preparing recommendations to the President and to the Governor of   with respect to both short-range and long-range programs and projects to be carried out by  , or local agencies, including recommendations for such additional   legislation as may be deemed necessary and appropriate to meet reconstruction and development needs.

 . 3. Commission procedures. (a) The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairman.

(b) The   may prescribe such regulations as it deems necessary for the conduct of its affairs, and may establish such field committees in   as may be appropriate.

(c) Personnel assigned to the   shall be directed and supervised by the Executive Director of the Commission. Activities of the staff shall be carried out, under the general direction and supervision of the Chairman, in accordance with such policies and programs as may be approved by the  .

(d) The Chairman of the   shall report to the President from time to time on progress and accomplishments.

 . 4. Agency cooperation. (a) Each Federal agency represented on the   shall, consonant with law, cooperate with the   to expedite and facilitate its work. Each such agency shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).

(h) Other Federal agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish the   such information or advice bearing upon the work of the   as the Chairman may from time to time request.

 . 5. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency or officer, or any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or officer, to the authority of the   or of any other agency or officer, or as abrogating any such function in any manner.

 

Approved:

 ,

 .
