Executive Order  —Providing for the Restoration of Law and Order in the Washington Metropolitan Area
 
 

WHEREAS I have   issued Proclamation No.  , calling upon persons engaged in acts of violence and disorder in the   metropolitan area to cease and desist therefrom and to disperse and retire peaceably forthwith; and

WHEREAS the conditions of domestic violence and disorder described therein continue, and the persons engaging in such acts of violence have not dispersed:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and Commander in Chief of   under the Constitution and laws of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and by virtue of the authority vested in me as commander-in-chief of the militia of   by the Act of  , as amended (D.C. Code, Title 39), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of   is authorized and directed to take all appropriate steps to disperse all persons engaged in the acts of violence described in the proclamation, to restore law and order, and to see that the property, personnel and functions of  , of embassies of foreign governments, and of international organizations in the   metropolitan area are protected against violence or other interference.

 . 2. In carrying out the provisions of Section 1, the Secretary of   is authorized to use such of   as he may deem necessary.

 . 3. (a) The Secretary of   is hereby authorized and directed to call into the active military service of  , as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order, units or members of   and of   to serve in the active military service of   for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders. Units or members may be relieved subject to recall at the discretion of the Secretary of  . In carrying out the provisions of Section 1, the Secretary of   is authorized to use units and members called or recalled into the active military service of   pursuant to this section.

(b) In addition, in carrying out the provisions of Section 1, the Secretary of   is authorized to exercise any of the powers vested in me by law as commander-in-chief of the militia of  , during such time as any units or members of   or   of the District shall not have been called into the active military service of  .

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to delegate to one or more of the Secretaries of the military   any of the authority conferred upon him by this order.

 

The White House 4:03

 ,    
