Executive Order  —Establishing the President's Committee on Manpower
 
 

WHEREAS various Federal programs and activities have a significant impact on the demand, supply, development, and utilization of manpower for the  ; and

WHEREAS sound public policy requires an assessment of present and anticipated manpower resources and requirements of the  , including the direct and indirect impact of Federal policies, programs, and activities, and their interrelationship with other sectors of the economy; and

WHEREAS   of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.   et seq.), requires   to appraise the manpower requirements and resources of the  , and directs the President to report to the     on manpower requirements, resources, use, and training; and

WHEREAS as provisions of Title I of that Act require the Secretary of   to report and make recommendations to the President on manpower requirements, resources, use, and training:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of the  . (a) There is hereby established a President's   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of the Secretary of  , who shall be the Chairman, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  ,  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , and such other heads of Federal agencies as the President may designate.

(c) The Chairman may invite the head of any other Federal agency to participate in meetings of the   when matters of substantial interest to such agency head are to be considered by the  .

(d) The Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , and the Director of   may each designate a member of his staff to attend meetings of the   as an observer.

 . 2. Functions of the  . (a) To assist in carrying out Federal functions under   of  , as amended, the   (1) shall assist the Secretary of  , as requested by him, in assessing the  's current and prospective manpower requirements and supplies, including the direct and indirect effects of Federal programs, and in developing recommendations to deal with current and prospective manpower problems, and (2) shall advise the Secretary of   and other Federal officials, as appropriate, in developing improved methods and programs for appraising national manpower needs and resources.

(b) In carrying out these functions the   shall:

(1) Evaluate and, where appropriate, recommend improvements in methods and programs for assessing (i) present and anticipated manpower resources and requirements of the Nation, and (ii) in particular, the present and anticipated direct and indirect impact of Federal programs and activities on the  's manpower.

(2) Evaluate and make recommendations for the coordination within the Government of information, projections, research, and action programs concerned with measuring and projecting manpower needs and supplies.

(3) Make recommendations to appropriate   officials concerning procedures for obtaining consistency among projections of national manpower resources and requirements, and consult with the Chairman of   with a view to obtaining consistency between the  's manpower projections and estimates of current and foreseeable trends in the levels of employment, production, and purchasing power made pursuant to section 3(a) of the Employment Act of   (15 U.S.C. 1022(a)).

(4) Make recommendations to appropriate officials concerning (i) information needed from   agencies in order to carry out the purposes of this order, (ii) the desirable form and manner of reporting such information, and (iii) the techniques and guidelines to be used in developing information and preparing such reports as may be prescribed by appropriate authority in order to obtain consistency among agency reports.

 . 3. Administrative arrangements. In consonance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134, 31 U.S.C. 691), and as may be necessary for effectuating the purposes of this order, (1)   shall provide administrative services and general staff support for the  , and (2) each Federal agency represented on the   (including  ) shall furnish the   other necessary assistance in accordance with the said section 214.

 . 4. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or any officer thereof.

 

Approved:

 ,

 .
