Executive Order  —  of the President to   in Travel Status
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Executive  . 10621 of  , entitled "Delegation of Certain Functions of the President to the Secretary of  ," is hereby amended by adding the following paragraph at   thereof:

"(o) The authority vested in the President by section 3 of the Travel Expense Act of  , 63 Stat. 166, as amended (5 U.S.C. 836), to establish maximum rates of per diem allowances for civilian officers and employees of the Government to the extent that such authority pertains to travel status in localities in  ,  ,  , the Canal Zone, and possessions of  ."

 . 2. There is hereby delegated to the Secretary of   the authority vested in the President by Section 3 of the Travel Expense Act of  , 63 Stat. 166, as amended (5 U.S.C. 836), to establish maximum rates of per diem allowances for civilian officers and employees of the Government to the extent that such authority pertains to travel status in localities in any area (including  ) situated outside  ,  , the Canal Zone, and the possessions of  .

 . 3. Executive  .  , entitled "Delegating Certain Functions of the President to the Director of  ," as amended, is hereby further amended by substituting for paragraph (9) of Section 1 thereof the following:

"(9) The authority vested in the President by Section 3 of the Travel Expense Act of  , 63 Stat. 166 (5 U.S.C. 836), to establish maximum rates of per diem allowances for civilian officers and employees of the Government to the extent that such authority pertains to travel status of such officers and employees while en route to, from, or between localities situated outside the 48 contiguous states of   and  ."

 . 4. To the extent not heretofore superseded, Executive Order No.  , is hereby superseded.

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
