Executive Order  —Cooperative Area Manpower Planning System
 
 

WHEREAS Federal legislation enacted in   has established numerous manpower programs to improve the employability of disadvantaged, unemployed, and underemployed persons; and

WHEREAS administration of these manpower and related service programs requires extensive participation of   and local governments and nongovernment agencies; and

WHEREAS experience has demonstrated that close coordination of the operating programs at the local,  , and Federal levels is essential to their successful, effective, and economical implementation:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 637 of the Economic Opportunity Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.  ), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Policy.

(a) Cooperative planning and execution of manpower training and supportive manpower service programs is hereby established as the policy of  .

(b) Each   executive department or agency administering manpower training or supportive manpower, service programs shall, to, the extent consistent with law, carry out its programs and exercise its functions so as to further the policy herein enunciated.

 . 2.

 .

(a)   (hereinafter referred to as CAMPS) is hereby recognized as a primary instrument for carrying out the policy stated in section 1 above.

(b)  ;  , and  ;  ;  ; Agriculture; and the  ;  ; and  , together with their affiliated organizations and such additional   executive departments and agencies as may be mutually agreed upon by them, shall participate in CAMPS for the purposes of cooperatively planning and executing manpower programs and supportive manpower service programs in urban and rural areas.

(c) Each department and agency included in CAMPS shall participate in manpower coordinating committees at the national and regional levels. The Secretary of   shall designate the chairmen of such committees. To the extent practical and necessary, each such department and agency shall also participate, either directly or through affiliated  , local, or nongovernmental organizations with which it maintains grant-in-aid or contractual relationships, in cooperative manpower planning at   and area levels.

(d) To the extent consistent with law, each department or agency included in CAMPS shall carry out its responsibilities with respect to Federal assistance,   and local planning, and utilization of resources so as to further the purposes of this order.

 . 3.

Administrative services.

In compliance with provisions of applicable law, and as necessary to effectuate the purposes of this order,   shall provide or arrange for administrative services and staff support for all   coordinating committees, and each   or agency participating in CAMPS shall furnish such information and other assistance as may be necessary and available.

 . 4.

Construction.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any   or agency or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such department, agency, or head, to the authority of any other department, agency, or head.

 

 

 

NOTE: The Executive order was released at  ,  .
