Executive Order  —Study of   Policy
 
 

WHEREAS I have directed   to conduct a long-range study of   foreign trade policy (hereinafter referred to as "the study") and to recommend to me such legislative and other measures as may be required;

WHEREAS the policies undertaken as a result of the study will have a significant impact upon the economy as well as upon the international relations of  ; and

WHEREAS the study will benefit from the views and recommendations of Members of the  , representatives of various sectors of the economy of  , and other interested agencies of   THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Preparation of study. (a) In conducting the study and in preparing his final recommendations to the President,   (hereinafter referred to as the "Special Representative") shall consider the views and recommendations of Members of the  , of  , and of other interested agencies of   concerning the future nature and direction of   foreign trade policy.

(b) The Special Representative shall determine the most effective ways and means of obtaining such views and recommendations in order to render them as useful to the study as possible.

 . 2. Views of Members of  . For purposes of the study, the Special Representative shall review and consider the hearings on foreign trade held by various committees of   and the   during the 90th  , and shall seek the views and recommendations of the members of the committees of   and the   concerned with trade policy.

 . 3.  . (a) For purposes of the study, there is hereby established a committee to be known as  , which shall furnish its views and recommendations to the Special Representative.

(b) The   shall be composed of not more than 35 members who shall be designated by the President from among, appropriately qualified citizens of   outside  , who shall be representative of various sectors of the economy of  , and who shall serve without compensation from  .

(c) The   shall meet upon the request of the Special Representative.

 . 4. Participation by other agencies. (a) For purposes of the study,   Defense, Interior,  ,  , and  , and such other agencies as the Special Representative may from time to time call upon, shall furnish views and recommendations to him.

(b) In addition, the agencies referred to in subsection (a.) shall, at the request of the Special Representative, assist him in the preparation of the study by all appropriate means.

 . 5. Applicability of Executive Order No.  . (a) The provisions of sections 4, 6(a), 6 (b), 6(c), and 6(f) of Executive Order No.   of  , which prescribes regulations for the formation and use of advisory committees, are hereby adapted and made applicable to   established by section 3 of this Order.

(b) The Special Representative shall be responsible for assuring compliance with the provisions of Executive Order No.   referred to in subsection (a) in relation to that  , and he is authorized to exercise the authority contained in section 6 (f) of that   and to prescribe such additional regulations with respect to that   as he may deem necessary.

 . 6. Prior body and orders.   is hereby abolished, and Executive Order No. 11143 of  , and Executive Order No. 11159 of  , are hereby revoked.

 

 

 

NOTE: The Executive order was released at  ,  . For the announcement of appointment of members to  , see the following item.
