Executive Order  —The Canal Zone Merit System and Regulations Relating to   in the Canal Zone
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 155 of Title 2 of the Canal Zone Code (76A Stat. 19), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. As used in this order:

(1) The term "subchapter III" shall mean subchapter III of Chapter 7 of Title 2 of the Canal Zone Code (76A Stat. 16-20).

(2) The terms "department," "position," "employee," and "continental  " shall have the meanings ascribed to them in Section 141 of Title 2 of the Canal Zone Code.

(3) The term "competitive civil service" shall have the same meaning as the words "competitive service," "classified service," "classified (competitive) service, or "classified civil service" as defined in existing statutes and Executive orders.

 . 2. (a) Subject to the further provisions of this order, there is delegated to the Secretary of the   the authority vested in the President by Sections 142 and 155 of Title 2 of the Canal Zone Code:

(1) To exclude any employee or position from any or all provisions of subchapter III.

(2) To extend to any employee, whether or not such employee is a citizen of  , the same rights and privileges as are provided by applicable laws and regulations for citizens of   employed in the competitive civil service of  .

(3) To coordinate the policies and activities of the respective departments under subchapter III.

(4) To promulgate such regulations as may be necessary and appropriate to carry out the provisions and accomplish the purposes of subchapter III.

(b) The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of the authority delegated to him by subsection (a) of this section.

(c) In promulgating regulations pursuant to the authority delegated by this section (including regulations with respect to the matters covered by   of this order), the Secretary of the   shall give effect to the following-described policies:

(1) Employment standards, rates of basic compensation, availability of training facilities and programs shall be applied uniformly among all departments in the Canal Zone to all employees irrespective of whether they are citizens of   or of  .

(2) Positions which are designated by the heads of agencies, under Section 147 of Title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, as those which for security reasons shall be filled by a citizen of   may include, but are not limited to, (i) those involving security of property,

(ii) those involving access to defense information classified pursuant to Executive Order No. 10501 of  , as amended, (iii) those which require the use of   citizens to insure continuity and capability of operation and administration of activities in the Canal Zone by  . Nothing in this order shall be deemed to modify or supersede any provision of either Executive Order No. 10501 of  , as amended, or Executive Order No.  .

(3) Exclusions of employees or positions from any or all provisions of subchapter III and the extension of rights and privileges to employees, as provided in Section 142(b) of Title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, shall be made only in accordance with regulations issued under this order. Such regulations shall provide for excluding employees or positions from the Canal Zone Merit System only for reasons for which exclusions or exceptions are made from the competitive civil service.

(d) Prior to the promulgation of regulations under this order, the Secretary of the   shall consult with  ,  , other components of   having employees in the Canal Zone,  ,  ,  , and such other agencies having employees in the Canal Zone as he may determine.

 . 3. (a) There is established, as provided for in Section 149 of Title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, a   of selection for appointment, reappointment, reinstatement, re-employment, and retention with respect to positions, employees, and individuals under consideration for appointment to positions. In accordance with the provisions of Section 149, the Canal Zone Merit System shall—

(1) be based solely on the merit of the employee or individual and upon his qualifications and fitness to hold the position concerned;

(2) apply uniformly within and among all departments, positions, employees, and individuals concerned;

(3) conform generally to policies, principles, and standards established by or in accordance with the Civil Service Act of  , as amended and supplemented; and

(4) include provision for appropriate interchange of citizens of   employed by   between such merit system and the competitive civil service of  . Provisions for interchange which involve movement from the Canal Zone Merit System to the competitive civil service of   shall be subject to the concurrence of  .

(b) Regulations promulgated under this order with respect to the Canal Zone Merit System shall be issued only after advice has been received from   that such regulations conform generally to policies, principles, and standards established by or in accordance with the Civil Service Act of  , as amended and supplemented.

(c)   is directed to make periodic review of the operations of the Canal Zone Merit System for conformity with the requirements of subchapter III, this order, and regulations promulgated under Section 2 thereof, and shall report its findings to the Secretary of the  .

 . 4. (a) There is established, as provided for in Section 152 of Title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, a   to review and determine the appeals of employees. The   shall consist of five members, all of whom shall be civilians appointed by the Secretary of the   (and one of whom shall be designated by him as chairman), as follows:

(1) One member shall be nominated by  .

(2) Two members shall be selected from among employees of   agencies in the Canal Zone and shall be appointed only after consultation with and advice from organizations representing such employees.

(3) Two members shall be selected by the Secretary of the  .

(b) For each member of the  , the Secretary of the   shall appoint an alternate member, who shall be a civilian nominated or selected in the same manner as the   member for whom he is an alternate. An alternate member shall serve on the   whenever, for any reason, the member for whom he is an alternate is unable to serve.

(c) Decisions of the   shall be made by majority vote of the members.

 . 5. (a) Existing rules and regulations issued, and other actions taken, pursuant to Executive Order No. 10794 of  , and in effect immediately prior to the issuance of this order, shall remain in effect under the comparable provisions of this order until they are superseded in accordance with provisions of this order or until they expire by their own terms.

(b) Executive Order No. 10794 of  , is hereby superseded.

 

 ,

 .
