Executive Order  —Prescribing Arrangements for Coordination of the Activities of Regional Commissions and Activities of  , and  
 
 

WHEREAS the proper discharge of Federal responsibilities under   of   (79 Stat. 5, 40 U.S.C. App.) and   of   (79 Stat. 552, 42 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended by   90-103, 81 Stat. 257, requires that the participation of   in regional development activities be effectively coordinated;

WHEREAS the President is required by   of   to provide effective and continuing liaison between   and  ;

WHEREAS the Secretary of   has responsibility under   of   for Federal economic development activities designed to alleviate conditions of substantial and persistent unemployment and underemployment in economically distressed areas and regions of the  ;

WHEREAS the Secretary of   is directed by   of   to coordinate   appointed to regional commissions established before or after the date of that Act;

WHEREAS the Secretary of   is required by   of   to provide effective and continuing liaison between   and each regional commission established under Title V of that Act; and

WHEREAS the Secretary of   has been Chairman of   in  , established to provide general direction and guidance to   in  , established by Executive Order No.  , dated  , THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by   of  ,   of  , and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Functions of the Secretary of  .

The Secretary of Commerce shall

(a) Provide the effective and continuing liaison required by section 104 of   of   and by section 503 (c) of   of   between   and each regional commission established under those Acts, and between   and   in   (hereinafter referred to as " ").

(b) Obtain a coordinated review within   of plans and recommendations submitted by the commissions and  .

(c) Provide guidance and policy direction to   and the Chairman of   with respect to their Federal functions.

(d) Promote the effective coordination of the activities of   relating to regional economic development.

(e) In carrying out the functions set forth in section 1 (a), (b), (c), and (d) the Secretary of   shall

(1) Review the regional economic development plans and programs submitted to him by  , budgetary recommendations, the standards for development underlying those plans, programs and budgetary recommendations, and legislative recommendations; and advise   policy with respect to those matters, and where appropriate, submit recommendations to the Director of  .

(2) Review and advise the Chairman of   with respect to the tentative plans and recommendations of  , and receive and consider the final plans and recommendations of   and transmit them to the heads of interested Federal departments and agencies and to the President.

(3) Resolve any questions of policy which may arise between a   and a Federal department or agency in the implementation of regional development programs.

(4) Appoint a Special Assistant and other staff as required to assist him in carrying out these functions.

 . 2.

Establishment of the  .

(a) There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as "the  ."

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members: The Secretary of  , who shall be the Chairman of the   (hereinafter referred to as "the Chairman"), the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Administrator of  ,   of  , such   as are appointed by the President under authority of Title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of  , and the Chairman of  .

(c) Whenever matters within the purview of the   may be of interest to heads of   departments or agencies not represented on the   under section 2 (b) of this order, the Chairman may consult with the heads of such departments and agencies and may invite them to participate in meetings and deliberations of the  .

(d) The   shall meet at the call of the Chairman.

 . 3.

Functions of the  .

The   shall assist the Secretary of   in carrying out the functions set forth in section 1 of this order, and shall, as requested by the Secretary of  

(a) Review proposed long-range economic development plans prepared by the regional commissions and  .

(b) Recommend desirable development objectives and programs for such regions and  .

(c) Review proposed designations of additional economic development regions under Title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of  .

(d) Review Federal programs relating to regional economic development, develop basic policies and priorities with respect to such programs, and recommend administrative or legislative action needed to stimulate and further regional economic development.

(e) Review proposed department or agency regional economic development plans.

(f) Recommend surveys and studies needed to assist the Secretary of   and the   in carrying out their functions.

 . 4.

Responsibilities of Participating Federal Agencies.

(a) Each Federal department and agency the head of which is referred to in section 2 (b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134, 31 U.S.C. 691).

(b) The head of each such   or agency shall designate an Assistant Secretary or equivalent level official who shall have primary and continuing responsibility for the participation and cooperation of that department or agency in regional economic development as required by this order.

(c) The head of each such   or agency shall keep the Secretary of   and the   informed of all proposed regional economic development plans of his department or agency.

(d) The head of each such   or agency shall, consonant with law and within the limits of available funds, cooperate with the   and with the Secretary of   in carrying out their functions under this order. Such cooperation shall include, as may be appropriate, (1) furnishing relevant available information, (2) making studies and preparing reports, (3) in connection with the development of programs, priorities, and operations of the department or agency, giving full consideration to any plans and recommendations for the economic development of the various regions, including recommendations made by the  , and (4) advising on the work of the   as the Chairman may from time to time request.

 . 5.

Responsibilities of the Federal Cochairmen and the Chairman of  .

 , and the Chairman of   as appropriate, shall

(a) Maintain continuing liaison with the Secretary of   with respect to the activities of the regional commissions and  .

(b) Adhere to general Federal policies affecting regional economic development that are established by the Secretary of  .

(c) Inform the appropriate Federal departments and agencies of programs and projects to be considered by the commissions, and attempt to obtain a consensus within   through consultation with appropriate Federal agency representatives before casting a vote on any such matter.

(d) Represent the participating Federal departments and agencies in connection with the activities of the regional commissions.

(e) Submit to the Secretary of   regional economic development plans and programs of the regional commissions, budgetary recommendations, legislative recommendations, and progress reports, as requested by the Secretary of  , on the activities of the regional commissions.

(f) Submit reports required by section 304 of   of   and by section 510 of   of   to the Secretary of   for review prior to transmittal to the President or the  .

 . 6.

 .

(a) Funds appropriated pursuant to sections 201 and 401 of   of   shall be available to   of   for the purposes of carrying out that Act.

(b)   is delegated the functions conferred upon the President by sections 214(a), 302 (a), and 302 (c) of   of  , which shall be exercised by him in accordance with the provisions of this order.

 . 7.

Construction.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any   or agency, to the authority of the   or the Secretary of  , or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.

 . 8.

Definition.

Except as the context may otherwise require, any reference herein to any Act, or to any provision of any Act, shall be deemed to be a reference thereto as amended from time to time.

 . 9.

Prior Executive Orders.

(a) Executive Order No.  , as amended, is hereby further amended as follows:

(1) By changing the heading of the order so as to read as follows: "ESTABLISHING THE FEDERAL FIELD COMMITTEE FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANNING IN ALASKA".

(2) By striking the words " " from section 1 (b) and by inserting in lieu thereof the words "the Secretary of  , the Director of  ".

(3) By substituting the following for subsection (a) of section 2:

"(a) Subject to the general direction and guidance of the Secretary of  , the   shall serve as the principal instrumentality for developing coordinated plans for Federal programs which contribute to economic and resources development in   and for recommending appropriate action by   to carry out such plans."

(4) By striking from sections 3(e) and 3 (f) the words "Review Committee" and by inserting in lieu thereof the words "Secretary of Commerce".

(5) By revoking Part II. The President's   in  , established by that Part, shall be deemed to be hereby abolished.

(6) By redesignating Part III and section 31 thereof as Part II and section 21, respectively.

(7) By redesignating Part IV and sections 41,  , and 43 as Part III and sections  ,  , and 33, respectively, and by striking from the redesignated section 33 the words "and  ".

(b)  , established by Executive Order No.  , is hereby abolished and that order is hereby revoked.

 

 

LYNDON B. JOHNSON

NOTE: For a statement by the President upon signing Executive Order  , see  . Pres. Docs., p.  .
