Executive Order  —  and   for  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   (30 F.R. 9353), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

PART I. SECRETARY OF STATE

SECTION 1.

Delegation of functions.

Except to the extent inconsistent with   22(a) and 32(a) of this  , all the functions which were transferred to the President by  c) and 1 (d) of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   are hereby delegated to the Secretary of  , hereinafter referred to as the Secretary.

 . 2.

Redelegation.

The Secretary may redelegate the functions delegated to him by the provisions of Section 1 of this   to officials or bodies of  .

PART II. BOARD OF THE FOREIGN SERVICE

 . 21.

Establishment of Board.

(a) There is hereby established in  , hereafter in this Part referred to as the Board.

(b) The Board shall be composed of:

(1) Five officials of  , each of whom shall be designated as a member of the   by the Secretary and one of whom shall be so designated from among the officials of the Agency for International Development.

(2) One official of each of the following who in each case shall be designated as a member of the   by the head of the department or agency concerned:

(i)  )  

(iii)  

(iv) Such other executive departments and agencies as shall be designated from time to time by the Secretary, each of which shall have one member on the  .

(3) The Chairman of  .

(c) The Secretary may invite the head of any executive department or other agency which is not represented on the   by a member of the   to designate a representative to participate in meetings of the   whenever matters of substantial interest to such department or agency are to be considered by the  .

(d) Each member designated pursuant to subsection (b) (1) or (b) (2), above, and each representative designated pursuant to subsection (c), above, shall be chosen from among the officials of the department or agency concerned who are not below the rank of an Assistant Secretary or who are occupying positions of comparable responsibility, except that the Secretary may designate the Director General of   as one of the members under subsection (b) (1), above.

(e) The Secretary shall from time to time designate a member of the   as the chairman of the  .

 . 22.

Functions of the Board.

(a) There are hereby delegated to the   the functions which prior to the taking effect of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   were vested in   abolished by that plan by Section 211(b) of the Foreign Service Act of   (22 U.S.C. 826 (b)), exclusive of that part thereof which follows the last semicolon in the Section, and by Section 637(a) of that Act (22 U.S.C. 1007(a)).

(b) The Board shall perform such additional functions as the Secretary may from time to time delegate or otherwise assign thereto.

PART III. BOARD OF EXAMINERS FOR THE FOREIGN SERVICE

 . 31.

Establishment of Board.

(a) There is hereby established in   for  , hereinafter referred to as  .

(b) The membership of   shall be constituted in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. The Secretary shall from time to time designate a member of   as the chairman thereof. Not more than one half of the membership of   may be made up of officers of  .

 . 32.

Functions of the Board.

(a) There are hereby delegated to   the functions which prior to the taking effect of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   were vested in   for   abolished by that plan by Sections 212(a), 516(a), and 517 of the Foreign Service Act of   (22 U.S.C. 827(a) ; 911(a); 912).

(b)   shall perform such additional functions as the Secretary may from time to time delegate or otherwise assign thereto.

 . 33.

Direction and supervision.

All functions delegated or otherwise assigned by or pursuant to this Part shall be performed subject to the direction and supervision of the Secretary.

PART IV.   PROVISIONS

 . 41.

Administrative arrangements.

(a)   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services and facilities for   and  .

(b) Upon request of the Secretary, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall, as far as practicable, furnish   and   information and reports relating to matters within the cognizance of the respective boards.

 . 42.

Saving provisions.

(a) Except to the extent that they may be inconsistent with this  , all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements and other actions made, issued, or entered into with respect to any functions affected by this   and not revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable before the effective date of this   shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority.

(b) For the purposes of any proceeding or other business which immediately before the effective date of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   or of this   was pending or in process before   or   for   as established by the provisions of the Foreign Service Act of   or by the provisions of Executive Order No.   of  , the bodies established by Parts II and III of this   shall be deemed to represent continuations of the respective Boards.

(c) Nothing in Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   (30 F.R. 9353) or in this   or in any Executive order issued before the date of this   shall be deemed to terminate or impair any of the following:

(1) The availability to the Director of   of the authority which was made available to him by Executive Order No.   of  .

(2) The availability to   which was made available to him by Section 2 (b) (3) of   of  , 26 F.R.  .

(3) The availability to the Director of   of the authority which was made available to him by Section 2 (b) (3) of  . 85-11A of  , 27 F.R. 9074.

(4) The availability to the Secretary of   of the authority which was vested in him by Section 42(3) of   (22 U.S.C. 2582(3)).

 . 43.

Effective date.

The provisions of this   shall be effective as of  .

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
