Executive Order  —Designating   as  , and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Sections 1 and 11 of   (59 Stat. 669; 22 U.S.C. 288), as amended by   89-353 (80 Stat. 5), I hereby designate   ( ) as, a public international organization entitled to enjoy those privileges, exemptions, and immunities provided for by   which are described in paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Agreement between   and   effected by   at  , dated  , a copy of which paragraphs are annexed hereto and made a part of this  .

 

 

 

STATUS OF ESRO

6. ESRO shall, to the extent consistent with the instrument creating it, possess the capacity in   to contract, to acquire and dispose of real and personal property, and to institute legal proceedings.

PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES

7.   and its personnel shall be accorded the status, privileges, exemptions and immunities indicated in the following sub-paragraphs:

A. Customs Duties.   will, upon request, take the necessary measures to facilitate the admission into   of material, equipment, supplies, goods or other items imported by or for the account of   in connection with the station and   programs. Such shipments shall be accorded such exemption from customs duties and internal-revenue taxes imposed upon or by reason of importation, and such procedures in connection therewith, as are accorded under similar circumstances to foreign governments.

  to Property. Title to all materials, equipment or other items of property used in connection with the station and   programs will remain in  . Material, equipment, supplies, goods or other property of   may be removed from   at any time by   free of taxes or duties.

C. Inviolability and Immunity from Search. The archives of   shall be inviolable. The property and assets of   shall, subject to police and health regulations, and applicable   regulations with regard to radio station inspections, be immune from search, unless   expressly waives such immunity, and from confiscation.

D. Judicial Immunity.  , its property and assets, shall enjoy the same immunity from suit and every form of judicial process as is enjoyed by foreign governments, except to the extent that   may expressly waive its immunity for the purpose of any proceedings or by the terms of any contract.

E. Other Privileges of  . ESRO shall be exempt from the following taxes levied by  : federal income tax; federal communications taxes on telephone, telegraph and teletype services in connection with the operation of the station; and federal tax on tickets for air transport of   officers and employees which are purchased by   or   officers and employees in connection with official travel to and from the station.

F. Privileges of Personnel.   will facilitate the admission into   of such   officers and employees and their families, as may be assigned to or visit the station.   and its officers and employees shall have the same privileges and immunities as those accorded by   to officers and employees of foreign governments with respect to laws regulating entry into and departure from  , alien registration and fingerprinting, and registration of foreign agents. Officers and employees so assigned shall not exceed in number those necessary for the construction and effective operation of the station.   will communicate their names to   in advance of entry.

Baggage and effects of   officers and employees assigned to the station may be admitted, when imported in connection with the arrival of the owner, into  , and may be removed from   free of customs duties and internal-revenue taxes imposed upon or by reason of importation. Such effects having a significant value shall be sold or otherwise disposed of in   only under conditions approved by  . Such   personnel shall be exempt from the payment of   income tax and federal insurance contributions on wages and expenses paid by  . The privileges and immunities set forth in this subparagraph shall not apply to citizens of   or foreign nationals admitted into   for permanent residence. However, officers and employees of  , whatever their nationality, shall be immune from suit and legal process relating to acts performed by them in their official capacity and falling within their functions except insofar as such immunity may be waived by  .

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
