Executive Order  —  and Financial Policies
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   (30 F.R. 9353), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION I.

Establishment of Council.

(a) There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  .

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members: the Secretary of the  , who shall be the chairman of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Chairman of   of  , and the President of  .

(c) Whenever matters within the jurisdiction of the   may be of interest to Federal agencies not represented on   (b) of this order, the Chairman of the   may consult with such agencies and may invite them to designate representatives to participate in meetings and deliberations of the  .

 . 2.

Functions of the  .

(a) Exclusive of the functions delegated by the provisions of Section 3, below, and subject to the limitations contained in subsection (b) of this Section, all of the functions which are now vested in the President in consequence of their transfer to him effected by the provisions of Section 1 (b) of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   are hereby delegated to the  .

(b) The functions under Sections 4(a) and 4(b) (3) of  , including those made applicable to  ,  , and   (22 U.S.C. 286b (a) and (b) (3); 282b; 283b; 284b), to the extent that such functions consist of coordination of policies, are hereby delegated to the  . The functions so dele gated shall be deemed to include the authority to review proposed individual loan, financial, exchange, or monetary transactions to the extent necessary or desirable to effectuate the coordination of policies.

 . 3.

Functions of the Secretary of the  .

(a) Functions which' are now vested in the President in consequence of their transfer to him effected by the provisions of Section 1 (b) of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   are hereby delegated to the Secretary of the   to the extent of the following:

(1) Authority to instruct representatives of   to international financial organizations.

(2) Authority provided for in Section 4 (b) (4) of   (22 U.S.C. 286b (b) (4)).

(b) In carrying out the functions delegated to him by subsection (a) of this Section the Secretary shall consult with the  .

(c) Nothing in this order shall be deemed to derogate from the responsibilities of the Secretary of   with respect to the foreign policy of  .

 . 4.

Information.

(a) All agencies and officers of the Government, including representatives of   to international financial organizations, (1) shall keep the   or the Secretary of the  , as the case may be, fully informed concerning the foreign loan, financial, exchange, and monetary transactions in which they engage or may engage or with respect to which they have other responsibility, and (2) shall provide the   and the Secretary with such further information or data in their possession as the   or the Secretary, as the case may be, may deem necessary to the appropriate discharge of the responsibilities of the   and Secretary under   and 3 of this order, respectively.

(b) The   shall from time to time transmit to all appropriate agencies and officers of the   statements of the policies of the   under this order and such other information relating to the above- mentioned transactions or to the functions of the   hereunder as the   shall deem desirable.

 . 5.

Executive Order No.  .

Section 2 (a) of Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended by substituting for the name "  and Financial Problems" the following: "National Advisory Council on   and Financial Policies."

 . 6.

Effective date.

The provisions of this order shall be effective as of  .

 

 

 
