Executive Order  —Establishing   for the Observance of Human Rights Year 1968
 
 

WHEREAS   has designated   as International Human Rights Year to commemorate   of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; and

WHEREAS   has sought in its national and international policies to promote the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in accordance with its heritage of civil and political liberties and in recognition of the human rights of all without distinction of race, color, creed, sex, or national origin; and

WHEREAS, by Proclamation No. 3814 of  , I have designated   as Human Rights Year;

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established   for the Observance of Human Rights Year 1968 (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of  , the Staff Director for   (  (a)), the Chairman of  , and ten other members to be appointed by the President from public or private life. The President shall designate the chairman and the vice chairman of the   from among its members.

(c) Members of the   who are otherwise employed by   shall receive no additional compensation by reason of their service to the  . Members who are not so employed shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ) for persons so serving.

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The   shall promote the effective observance in   of   as   of  . To this end the   shall seek to create a better understanding of the principles of human rights as expressed in the Universal Declaration,  , the Constitution and laws of  , and the   and laws of the several States of  .

(b) The   shall provide a focus for the interest of official bodies,  , and local, which share its purpose. It shall also enlist the cooperation of educational institutions, foundations, mass media, civic, labor, and other organizations which plan to participate in the observance of International Human Rights Year.

(c) The   may conduct such other activities as it may deem appropriate to provide for the effective participation of   in the celebration of International Human Rights Year. Such activities may include, but need not be limited to, (i) conducting studies, (ii) issuing reports and other publications, and (iii) holding meetings, both public and private, at such times as the Chairman shall determine.

(d) The   shall report from time to time to the President on the progress made in the observance of International Human Rights Year in  . The final report of the   shall be made to the President on or before the date which occurs   after the date of this order and the   shall be deemed to be terminated on the date which so occurs.

 . 3. Assistance and cooperation. (a) As may be necessary, each Federal agency, an officer of which is a member of the  , may furnish assistance to the   in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691), or as otherwise permitted by law.   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide the   with necessary administrative services and facilities.

(b) The   is authorized to request any agency of the executive branch of the   to furnish the   such information and advice as may be useful to it for the fulfillment of its functions under this order. Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information and advice to the   upon request of the Chairman or Executive Director of the  .

(c) Upon request of the Chairman or Executive Director of the   each agency of the executive branch of the Government shall otherwise cooperate with the   in carrying out the provisions of this order and shall provide the   with such additional assistance and service as it may be able to provide.

(d) The   shall invite the cooperation of   for   with a view to coordinating its activities with those of   for  .

 . 4. Commission staff. The   shall have an executive director who shall receive such compensation as may hereafter be specified, and it is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C.  .

 

 

 
