Executive Order 11135—Creating an Emergency Board to Investigate Disputes Between the Carriers Represented by the  ,   and  , and Certain of Their Employees
 
 

WHEREAS disputes exist between the carriers represented by the  ,   and  , designated in   attached hereto and made a part hereof, and certain of their employees represented by  , a labor organization; and

WHEREAS these disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended; and

WHEREAS these disputes, in the judgment of  , threaten substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to deprive the country of essential transportation service:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 160), I hereby create a board of three members, to be appointed by me, to investigate these disputes. No member of the board shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier.

The board shall report its findings to the President with respect to the disputes within   from the date of this order.

As provided by Section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, from this date and for   after the board has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement, shall be made by the carriers represented by the  ,   and  , or by their employees, in the conditions out of which the disputes arose.

 

 ,

 .

List A

EASTERN RAILROADS

Akron,  Ann Arbor Railroad Company

 Staten Island Rapid Transit Railway Company

Bangor & Aroostook Railroad

Bessemer & Lake Erie Railroad Company

Boston & Maine Railroad

Canadian National Railways (New England States)

  (  and  )

Central R.R. Company of  

 

Central Vermont Railway, Inc.

 

 ,  

Indianapolis Union Railway Company

 

 

Monongahela Railway Company

New York Central System

  (Inc.  ) (Lines East)

Eastern District (Including B. & A. Division) (Lines East)

Western District (Lines West)

 

Northern District (Michigan Central)

Southern District ( )

 

Troy Union R.R. Company

 ,  

 ,   ,  

Pennsylvania Railroad Company

Pennsylvania-Reading Seashore Lines

Pittsburgh & West Virginia Railway Company

Port Authority Trans-Hudson Corporation

Reading Company

Washington Terminal Company

Western Maryland Railway Company

WESTERN RAILROADS

Alton & Southern Railroad

 ,  ,  

Belt Railway Company of Chicago

Chicago & Eastern Illinois Railroad

Chicago & Illinois Midland Railway

  (Inc.  )

 

Chicago,  

Chicago Great Western Railway

 ,  ,   ,  Colorado & Southern Railway

Denver & Rio Grande Western Railroad

Denver Union Terminal Railway

Elgin,   ,  

Great Northern Railway

Green Bay & Western Railroad

Kewaunee,  

  and Ft.W.&D. Ry.

  Southern Railway

Louisiana &   Railway

 

 -Kansas-Texas Railroad Company

  Railway (Memphis)

Northern Pacific Railway

Pacific Electric Railway

Peoria & Pekin Union Railway

 

 ,   Texas Railway

St Louis Southwestern Railway

Soo Line Railroad

Southern Pacific Company (Pacific Lines)

 —  and   ( )

 ,  

Oregon Electric Railway

Oregon Trunk Railway

Terminal Railroad Association of  

Texas & Pacific Railway

   

 ,   ( )

 

Western Pacific Railroad

SOUTHEASTERN RAILROADS

Atlanta & West Point R.R. Company

Western Railway of  

Clinchfleld Rail Road Company

Florida East Coast Railway

 

 

Richmond,  

Seaboard Air Line Railroad

Southern Railway

Alabama Great Southern

 ,  

Georgia Southern & Florida

Harriman & Northeastern

New Orleans & Northeastern

New Orleans Terminal Company

St.  