Executive Order  —  of the President to the Secretary of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of  , and, as designated by the said Secretary for this purpose, any of the Secretaries, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries of the military departments, are hereby designated and empowered to perform the following-described functions of the President without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:

(1) The authority vested in the President by section 3539(a) of title 10, United States Code, to detail not more than five commissioned officers of   for duty with the Service to   of  .

(2) The authority vested in the President by sections   and   of title 10, United States Code, to prescribe an examination concerning the moral, mental, and physical qualifications of chaplains.

(3) The authority vested in the President by sections   and 8313 of title 10, United States Code, to suspend, in time of war or emergency, any provision of law relative to the promotion or mandatory retirement or separation of   commissioned officers.

(4) The authority vested in the President by sections 565, 599,  , and 8450 of title 10, United States Code, to suspend, in time of war or emergency, any provision of law relative to promotion and mandatory retirement or separation of warrant officers of the armed forces.

(5) The authority vested in the President by sections   and   of title 10, United States Code, to appoint the chaplains at   and  .

(6) The authority vested in the President by sections 4302(a) and 9302(a) of title 10, United States Code, to approve regulations concerning instruction of enlisted members of the   and  .

(7) The authority vested in the President by sections   and   of title 10, United States Code, to prescribe the uniform of the   and  .

(8) The authority vested in the President by sections   and 5149 of title 10, United States Code, relating to the retirement of the Chief of  , the Deputy Judge Advocate General, and the Assistant Judge Advocate General, of the  .

(9) The authority vested in the President by section 6394(e) of title 10, United States Code, to approve or disapprove, in whole or in part, recommendations of boards convened to consider and recommend flag and general officers of the   and   for retirement.

(10) The authority vested in the President by section 2102(a) of title 10, United States Code, to prescribe regulations governing the establishment and maintenance of senior reserve officers'   units at civilian educational institutions.

(11) The authority vested in the President by section 123 of title 10, and section 111 of title  , United States Code, to suspend in time of war or national emergency those provisions cited therein relating to promotion of reserve officers.

(12) The authority vested in the President by section   of title 10, United States Code, to retire certain women officers of the   and  .

(13) The authority vested in the President by section 6223 (b) of title 10, United States Code, relating to members of  .

(14) The authority vested in the President by section 425 of title  , United States Code, to approve concert tours of   and  .

 . 2. All actions heretofore taken by or for the President with respect to the matters affected by this order and in force and effect at the time of the issuance of this order, including any regulations prescribed or approved by the President with respect to such matters, shall, except as they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this order, remain in force and effect until amended, modified, or revoked pursuant to the authority conferred by this order.

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
