Executive Order  —Participation in  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution of the United States of America,   of   (Title III of Public Law 90-634, approved  , 82 Stat.  ), hereinafter referred to as the Act,  ,  , as continued by  ,  , ratified  , and proclaimed   (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement), section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and section 1 of the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Secretary of  . Subject to the provisions of this order, the powers of the President involved in the participation of   in the Agreement, including so much of the functions conferred upon the President by the Act as is neither reserved nor delegated to other officers herein, are hereby delegated to the Secretary of  .

 . 2. Secretary of the  . The functions conferred upon the President by subsections (1) (A) and (B) and (2) of section 302 of the Act, together with the authority to issue and enforce such rules and regulations as may be necessary to perform those functions, are hereby delegated to the Secretary of the  .

 . 3. Secretaries of  , the  ,  , and  . The functions conferred upon the President by subsection (3) of section 302 of the Act, together with the authority to issue and enforce such rules and regulations as may be necessary to perform those functions, are hereby delegated to the Secretaries of State, the  ,   and  , severally.

 . 4. Functions reserved. There are hereby reserved to the President the functions conferred upon him by sections 304, 305, 306 and subsections (1) (C) and (4) of section 302 of the Act.

 . 5. Coordination. The functions assigned by the provisions of this order shall be performed under effective coordination. The measures of coordination hereunder shall include the following:

(1) In effecting and carrying out the participation of   in the Agreement, the Secretary of   shall consult with the appropriate heads of Federal agencies, including the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  .

(2) The delegates under section 3 of this order shall use the functions delegated thereunder as they and the Secretary of   shall mutually agree.

 . 6. Redelegation. Each Secretary mentioned in this order is hereby authorized to redelegate within his   the functions hereinabove assigned to him.

 . 7. Prior orders. (a) Executive Order No.   of   shall continue in force subject to the following amendment: Insert the phrase "as continued by  ,  " after the phrase " )".

(b) Executive Order No.   is hereby revoked.

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
