Executive Order  —Relating to Trade and Other Transactions Involving Southern Rhodesia
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including section 5 of   of 1945 (59 Stat. 620), as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , and considering the measures which  , by   Resolution No. 232 adopted  , has decided upon pursuant to article 41 of the Charter of  , and which it has called upon all members of  , including  , to apply, it is hereby ordered:

SECTION 1. The following are prohibited effective immediately, notwithstanding any contracts entered into or licenses granted before the date of this Order:

(a) The importation into   of asbestos, iron ore, chrome, pig-iron, sugar, tobacco, copper, meat and meat products, and hides, skins and leather originating in Southern Rhodesia and exported thereforth after  , or products made therefrom in Southern Rhodesia or elsewhere.

(  activities by any person subject to the jurisdiction of  , which promote or are calculated to promote the export from Southern Rhodesia after  , of any of the commodities specified in subsection (a) of this section originating in Southern Rhodesia, and any dealings by any such person in any such commodities or in products made therefrom in Southern Rhodesia or elsewhere, including in particular any transfer of funds to Southern Rhodesia for the purposes of such activities or  , however, 1 that the prohibition against the dealing in commodities exported from Southern Rhodesia or products made therefrom shall not apply to any such commodities or products which, prior to the date of this  , had been imported into  .

(c) Shipment in vessels or aircraft of   registration of any of the commodities specified in subsection (a) of this section originating in Southern Rhodesia and exported therefrom after  , or products made therefrom in Southern Rhodesia or elsewhere.

(d) Any activities by any person subject to the jurisdiction of  , which promote or are calculated to promote the sale or shipment to Southern Rhodesia of arms, ammunition of all types, military aircraft, military vehicles and equipment and materials for the manufacture and maintenance of arms and ammunition in Southern Rhodesia.

(e) Any activities by any person subject to the jurisdiction of  , which promote or are calculated to promote the supply to Southern Rhodesia of all other aircraft and motor vehicles, and of equipment and materials for the manufacture, assembly, or maintenance of aircraft or motor vehicles in Southern Rhodesia; the shipment in vessels or aircraft of   registration of any such goods destined for Southern Rhodesia; and any activities by any person subject to the jurisdiction of  , which promote or are calculated to promote the manufacture or assembly of aircraft or motor vehicles in Southern Rhodesia.

(f) Any participation in the supply of oil or oil products to Southern Rhodesia (i) by any person subject to the jurisdiction of  , or (ii) by vessels or aircraft of   registration, or (iii) by the use of any land or air transport facility located in  .

SECTION 2. The functions and responsibilities for the enforcement of the foregoing prohibitions are delegated as follows:

(a) To the Secretary of  , the function and responsibility of enforcement relating to the importation into, or exportation from   of articles, including technical data, the control of the importation or exportation of which is provided for in section 414 of the Mutual Security Act of   (68 Stat. 848), as amended (22 U.S.C.  ), and has been delegated to the Secretary of   by section 101 of Executive Order No.   of  .

(b) To the Secretary of  , the function and responsibility of enforcement relating to—

(i) the exportation from   of articles other than the articles, including technical data, referred to in subsection (a) of this section; and

(ii) the transportation in vessels or aircraft of   registration of any commodities the transportation of which is prohibited by section 1 of this Order.

(c) To the Secretary of the  , the function and responsibility of enforcement to the extent not delegated under subsections (a) or (b) of this section.

SECTION 3. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of Commerce shall exercise any authority which such officer may have apart from   of   or this   so as to give full effect to this   Resolution No. 232.

SECTION 4. (a) In carrying out their respective functions and responsibilities under this  , the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall consult with the Secretary of  . Each such Secretary shall consult, as appropriate, with other government agencies and private persons.

(b) Each such Secretary shall issue such regulations, licenses, or other authorizations as he considers necessary to carry out the purposes of this   Resolution No. 232.

SECTION 5. (a) The term " ", as used in this   in a geographical sense, means all territory subject to the jurisdiction of  .

(b) The term "person" means an individual, partnership, association, or other unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation.

 

 

 
