Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS close cooperation between the Government and the private sector is essential to the future progress of our  ;

WHEREAS both the   and the private sector will be enriched if the most promising young executives in each sector are given an opportunity to work in the other sector in challenging and responsible positions; and

WHEREAS the President's   has recommended establishment of a President's   to implement a formal program of executive interchange:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Establishment of the Commission.

(a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of such officials in the   departments and agencies and such persons from the private sector as the President may from time to time appoint. The Chairman shall be designated by the President. The members of the   and the Chairman shall serve   terms at the pleasure of the President.

(c) Members of the   who are officers or employees of the   shall receive no additional compensation by reason of this order, and members who are not such officers or employees shall serve without compensation, but shall be provided with travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law.

 . 2. Functions of the Commission.

The   shall:

(a) Develop   under which promising young executives from the   departments and agencies and the private sector will be selected as   Executives and placed in positions offering challenge and responsibility in the other sector.

(b) Develop an education program designed to place the work experience of the Interchange Executives in the broader context of   and the private sector.

(c) Supervise and review the operation of the  , and make recommendations to the President as to ways of promoting interchange between the Government and the private sector.

 . 3.

 .

(a) Each Federal department and agency shall cooperate with the   and shall furnish it with such assistance as the Chairman may request in connection with the  .

(b) The head of   and agency shall designate a presidential appointee who is not a member of the   to serve as liaison to the  .

(c)   shall provide the   with administrative services, staff support, and travel expenses, as authorized by law.

 

 

 

NOTE: The Executive order was not filed with   before the cutoff time of this issue. As printed above, it follows the text of   press release.
