Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS foreign trade is an essential and continuing element in sustaining the growth, strength, and prosperity of our economy, contributes to the improvement of our balance of payments, and fosters the long-term commercial interest of  ; and

WHEREAS, on  , I requested the   to empower   to use up to $500,000,000 of its loan, guarantee, and insurance authority to finance a broadened program to sell   goods in foreign markets; and

WHEREAS the   has authorized the   to extend loans, guarantees, and insurance which, in the judgment of   of the  , offer sufficient likelihood of repayment to justify the  's support in order to actively foster the foreign trade and long-term commercial interest of  ; and

WHEREAS it is desirable and appropriate that guidance concerning the commercial interests and the balance of payments objectives of   be provided to   of the   in the use of such loan, guarantee, and insurance authority allocated to finance export expansion, and I have stated-that I would establish an   to provide-such guidance to   of the Bank:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Establishment of Advisory Committee.

(a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee").

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members: the Secretary of  , who shall be Chairman of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the President and Chairman of  .

 . 2.

Functions of the  .

The   shall review and make recommendations concerning applications and proposals for loans, guarantees, and insurance to be charged against allocations made to finance export expansion and shall provide guidance to   of the   concerning the use of such allocations with the view to fostering the foreign trade and long-term commercial interest of  .

 . 3.

Construction.

Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or any officer thereof or to any  . As used herein the term "any   agency" includes any executive department and any other executive agency.

 

 

 

NOTE: For a statement by the President upon signing the   order, see the preceding item.
