Executive Order  —Relating to Certain Relationships Between   and  
 
 

WHEREAS Section 302(e) of the Federal Aviation Act of   provides, in part, that in the event of war the President by Executive order may transfer to   any functions (including powers, duties, activities, facilities, and parts of functions) of  ; and

WHEREAS it appears that the defense of   would require the transfer of   to  WHEREAS if any such transfer were to be made it would be essential to the defense of   that the transition be accomplished promptly and with maximum ease and effectiveness; and

WHEREAS these objectives require that the relationships that would obtain in the event of such a transfer as between   and   be understood in advance by the two agencies concerned and be developed in necessary detail by them in advance of transfer:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 302(e) (72 Stat. 746; 49 U.S.C. 1343(c)), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The Secretary of   and the Administrator of   are hereby directed to prepare and develop plans, procedures, policies, programs, and courses of action in anticipation of the probable transfer of   to   in the event of war. Those plans, policies, procedures, programs, and courses of action shall be prepared and developed in conformity with the following-described standards and conditions—

(A)   will function as an adjunct of   with the Administrator of   being responsible directly to the Secretary of   and subject to his authority, direction, and control to the extent deemed by the Secretary to be necessary for the discharge of his responsibilities as Secretary of  .

(B) To the extent deemed by the Secretary of   to be necessary for the accomplishment of the military mission, he will be empowered to direct the Administrator to place operational elements of   under the direct operational control of appropriate military commanders.

(C) While functioning as an adjunct of  ,   will remain organizationally intact and the Administrator thereof will retain responsibility for administration of his statutory functions, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of   to the extent deemed by the Secretary to be necessary for the discharge of his responsibilities as Secretary of  .

 . 2. In furtherance of the objectives of the foregoing provisions of this order, the Secretary and the Administrator shall, to the extent permitted by law, make such arrangements and take such actions as they deem necessary to assure—

(A) That the functions of   are performed during any period of national emergency short of war in a manner that will assure that essential national defense requirements will be satisfied during any such period of national emergency'.

(B) Consistent with the provisions of paragraphs (A), (B), and (C) of Section 1 of this order, that any transfer of   to  , in the event of war, will be accomplished smoothly and rapidly and effective operation of the agencies and functions affected by the transfer will be achieved after the transfer.

 

 ,

 
