Executive Order  — 
 
 

WHEREAS since   of the militia it has been the tradition of our Nation that we entrust its defense not just to a standing army but to all citizens; and

WHEREAS it is appropriate that the laws by which Government calls its citizens to serve should be reviewed by distinguished citizens from different walks of life, not only in the light of military needs but also with a view to other national, community and individual needs:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Establishment of Commission.

(a) There is hereby established a commission to be known as   (hereinafter termed the  ).

(b) The. Commission shall be composed of not more than twenty-five members who shall be designated by the President. The members shall be chosen with a view to their ability and experience, and shall be broadly representative of the various aspects of our national life. They shall serve at the pleasure of the President. The President shall designate one of the members of the   as Chairman.

SECTION 2.

Functions of the Commission.

(a) The   shall consider the past, present and prospective functioning of selective service and other systems of national service in the light of the following factors:

(1) Fairness to all citizens;

(2) Military manpower requirements;

(3) The objective of minimizing uncertainty and interference with individual careers and education;

(4) Social, economic and employment conditions and goals;

(5) Budgetary and administrative considerations; and

(6) Any other factors that the   may deem relevant.

(b) Based on its study, the   shall make recommendations concerning such matters as:

(1) Methods of classification and selection of registrants;

(2) Qualifications for military service;

(3) Grounds for deferment and for exemption;

(4) Procedures for appeal and protection of individual rights; and

(5) Organization and administration of the selective service system at the national, state and local levels.

(c) The   is also authorized to evaluate other proposals related to selective service, including proposals for national service.

(d) The   shall make a final report to the President on or  , setting forth its findings and recommendations, and including a statement concerning any proposed changes in applicable laws or in their administration.

SECTION 3.

Compensation and Personnel.

(a) Each member of the   is authorized to receive such compensation as may be hereafter specified for   spent in the work of the   pursuant to this order, together with travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence expenses when away from his usual place of residence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons employed intermittently.

(b) The   shall have an Executive Director, who shall be designated by the President and shall receive such compensation as may be hereafter specified.

The functions and duties of the   Director shall be prescribed by the  . The   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such other personnel as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions. The   is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of section 15 of the Act of   (5 U.S.C.  ).

SECTION 4.

Cooperation by  .

The   is authorized to request from any department, agency, or independent instrumentality of   any information deemed necessary to carry out its functions, under this order; and each department, agency, and instrumentality is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information to the  .

SECTION 5.

Termination of the Commission.

The   shall terminate   after the submission, pursuant to section 2 of this order, of its final report to the President.

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.

APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS

On  , the appointment of the following members of   was announced at  ,  , by   Press Secretary:

BURKE MARSHALL (Chairman of the  ), vice president and general counsel,  ,  ,  

KINGMAN BREWSTER,  ., president,  

THOMAS S. GATES,  ., chairman of the board and chief executive officer,  ,  ,  

OVETA CULP HOBBY, president and editor,  

ANNA ROSENBERG HOFFMAN, public and industrial relations consultant,  ,  

PAUL  , president,  ,  , and  , AFL—CIO,  ,  

 , investment banker and corporate director,  ,  

 , president,  ,  ,  

REV.  ,  , professor and author,  ,  

JEANNE L. NOBLE, associate professor,  ,  

 ,  ., vice president,  ,  ,  

 , director,  ,  ,  

 , professor of surgery,  ,  

 , international president,  ,  ,  

FRANK STANLEY SZYMANSKI, Judge of   in  

 , vice president,  

 , vice president of  ,  ,  

 ,  ., project director,  ,  ,  ,  

DANIEL  , director, Western Region,  ,  ,  

 , president,  ,  ,   ( , Hue, Jet) and trustee,  
