Executive Order  —  of the President to the Director of  
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows—

Section 1. The Director of   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:

(1) The authority vested in the President by Section 10 of the Act of March 3?  , ch. 212, 47 Stat.   (5 U.S.C.  ), to prescribe the regulations (relating to the certification required in connection rate by the transportation facility used in such transportation) provided for in that Section.

(2) The authority vested in the President by Section 1(a) of the Administrative Expenses Act of  , 60 Stat. 806 (5 U.S.C.   (a)), to prescribe the regulations (relating to the allowance and payment of the expenses of travel and certain other expenses of any civilian officer or employee of the   transferred from one official station to another for permanent duty) provided for in that Section.

(3) The authority vested in the President by the first sentence of Section 1(b) of   of  , 60 Stat. 807 (5 U.S.C.  )), to prescribe the regulations (relating to the reimbursement on a commuted basis, in lieu of the payment of certain actual expenses pertaining to his household goods and personal effects, of any civilian officer or employee of the   transferred from one official station to another for permanent duty between points in the continental  ) provided for in that sentence, except the authority to establish the commuted rates on which such reimbursement is made.

(4) The authority vested in the President by the second sentence of Section 1(b) of   of  , 60 Stat. 807 (5 U.S.C.  )), to prescribe the regulations (relating to the amount of the allowance or expenses, and the payment thereof, for the transportation of a house trailer or mobile dwelling within the continental  , within  , or between the continental   and  , for use as a residence) provided for in that sentence.

(5) The authority vested in the President by Section 1(e) of the Administrative Expenses Act of   (5 U.S.C. 73b-l(e)) and by Section 301(d) of   of  ,   86-707, 74 Stat. 796, to prescribe the regulations (relating to storage expenses and other matters) provided for in those  .

(6) The authority vested in the President by Section 1(f) of the Administrative Expenses Act of   (5 U.S.C. 73b-l(f)), to prescribe the regulations (relating to the transportation of the privately owned motor vehicle of an employee assigned to a post of duty outside the continental   on other than temporary duty orders) provided for in that Section.

(7) The authority vested in the President by Section 7 of the Administrative Expenses Act of   (5 U.S.C. 73b-3), to prescribe the regulations (relating to the availability of appropriations for the departments for expenses of travel of Government personnel (including new appointees), transportation of their immediate families, and transportation of their household goods and personal effects) provided for in that Section.

(8) The authority vested in the President by Section 1 of the Act of  , ch. 551, 54 Stat. 743 (5 U.S.C.  ), to prescribe regulations governing the matters provided for in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of that Section (relating to the payment of certain expenses on the death of a civilian officer or employee of   or of his dependents occurring in the circumstances described in those paragraphs and the furnishing of certain services and supplies on the death of such dependents).

(9) The authority vested in the President by Section 3 of the Travel Expense Act of  , 63 Stat. 166 (5 U.S.C. 836), to establish maximum rates of per diem allowances for civilian officers and employees of the Government to the extent that such authority pertains to travel status other than at localities in foreign areas as defined in Section 111 of the Overseas Differentials and Allowances Act (74 Stat. 792).

(10) That part of the authority vested in the President by Section 7(a) of   Overseas Teachers Pay and Personnel Practices Act, 73 Stat. 216 (5 U.S.C. 2355(a)) which consists of authority to prescribe regulations relating to storage (including packing, drayage, unpacking, and transportation to and from storage) of household effects and personal possessions.

(11) The authority vested in the President by the last sentence of paragraph (c) of Section 32 of Title III of the Act of  , ch. 517, 50 Stat. 525 (7 U.S.C. 1011(c)), to transfer to other  , or Territorial agencies lands acquired by the Secretary of   (a) of that Act.

(12) The authority vested in the President by Section 340 of   of  , 75 Stat. 318 (7 U.S.C.  ), in his discretion to transfer to the Secretary of Agriculture any right, interest or title held by   in any lands acquired in the program of national defense and no longer needed for that program, and to determine the suitability of the lands to be transferred, for the purposes referred to in that Section.

(13) The authority vested in the President by Section 126(a) of Title 10 of the United States Code to approve the transfers of balances of appropriations provided for in that Section.

(14) The authority vested in the President by Section 4(k) of  , 55 Stat. 599 (16 U.S.C. 831c (k)), to approve transfers under paragraphs (a) and (c) of that Section, other than leases for terms of   and conveyances of property having a value not in excess of $500.

(15) The authority vested in the President by Section 7(b) of   of   Stat. 63 (16 U.S.C. 831f(b)), to provide for the transfer to   of the use, possession, and control of real or personal property of   deemed by the Director of   to be necessary and proper for the purposes of the   as stated in that Act.

(16) The authority vested in the President by Section 1 of the Act of March 4,1927, ch. 505, 44 Stat.   (20 U.S.C. 191), to transfer to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture for the purposes of that Act any land belonging to   within or adjacent to   located along the Anacostia River north of Benning Bridge.

(17) The authority vested in the President by the last sentence of Section 4 of the Act of  , ch. 95, 57 Stat. 81 (24 U.S.C. 34), to prescribe from time to time rates of charges for hospitalization

(18) The authority vested in the President by Section 202 of   of  , 64 Stat. 838 (31 U.S.C. 581c), to approve the transfers of balances of appropriations provided for in subsections (a) and (b) of that Section.

(19) The authority vested in the President by the last sentence of Section 11 of the Act of  , ch. 270,43 Stat. 463 (40 U.S.C. 72), to approve (A) the designation of lands to be acquired by condemnation, (B) contracts for purchase of lands, and (C) agreements between   and officials of   and  .

(20) The authority vested in the President by Section 1 of the Act of  , ch. 48,45 Stat.   (40 U.S.C.  ), to approve contracts for acquisition of land subject to limited rights reserved to the grantor and for the acquisition of limited permanent rights in land adjoining park property.

(21) The authority vested in the President by Section 108 of the Housing Act of  , ch. 338, 63 Stat. 419 (42 U.S.C.  ), to transfer, or cause to be transferred, to   any right, title or interests held by   or any department or agency thereof in any land (including buildings thereon) which is surplus to the needs of the   and which a local public agency certifies will be within the area of a project being planned by it.

(22) The authority vested in the President by Section 407(b) of the Act of August 30,1957, 71 Stat. 556 (42 U.S.C. 1594j(b)), to approve regulations (relating to the rental of substandard housing for members of the uniformed services) prescribed pursuant to that Section. The   referred to in Section 407(c) of that Act shall furnish the Director of   such reports with respect to matters within the scope of the regulations so approved as he may require and at such times as he may specify.

(23) The authority vested in the President by the paragraph appearing under the heading "Expenses of Management Improvement" in    ,   88-392, 78 Stat. 374, or by any reenactment of the provisions of that paragraph in the same or in a different amount of funds, to allocate to any agency or office of the executive branch (including  ) funds appropriated by that paragraph or by any such reenactment of it. The Director of   snail from time to time report to the President concerning activities carried on by executive agencies and offices with funds allocated under this paragraph and shall, consonant with law, exercise such direction and control with respect to those activities as he shall deem appropriate.

(24) The authority vested in the President by the first sentence of Section 6 of the Act of  , 78 Stat. 558 (5 U.S.C.  ), to issue the regulations (relating to the provision, occupancy, and availability of quarters and facilities, the determination of rates and charges therefor, and other related matters, as are necessary and appropriate to carry out the provisions of that Act) provided for in that sentence.

(25) The authority vested in the President by the first Section of the Act of  , 78 Stat. 745 (5 U.S.C.  ), to prescribe the regulations (relating to the rates at which an allowance will be paid to employees of   assigned to duty, other than temporary duty, on one of the   offshore islands and to defining the areas and groups of positions to which such rates shall apply) provided for in that Section.

(26) The authority vested in the President by Section 44(a) of   of  ,   86-70,73 Stat. 151, to make transitional grants to the State of  ; and the authority vested in the President by Section 44(b) of that Act (A) to approve requests of the Governor of   that Federal agencies continue to provide services or facilities in   for an interim period, and (B) to allocate to such agencies the funds necessary to finance the provision of such services or facilities.

(27) The authority vested in the President by Section 45(a) of   of  , 73 Stat. 152, (A) to determine that any function performed by   in   has been terminated or curtailed by   and that performance of such function or substantially the same function has been or will be assumed by  , and (B) in his discretion, to transfer and convey to  , without reimbursement, any property or interest in property, real or personal, situated in   and as otherwise described in Section 45(a). The provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to affect the authority delegated to the Secretary of the   by Executive Order No.   of  , with respect to the transfer and conveyance of property described in Section 2 of that order.

(28) The authority vested in the President by Section 5(e) of the Act of  ,   86-3, 73 Stat. 6, to determine that certain land or property is no longer needed by  , and to convey to   the land or property which is determined to be no longer needed by  .

 . 2. The following are hereby superseded:

(1) Part I of Executive Order No.   of  .

(2) Executive Order No.   of September 8,  .

(3) Executive Order No.   of  .

(4) Executive Order No.   of  .

(5) Executive Order No.   of  .

(6) Executive Order No.   of  .

(7) Executive Order No.   of  .

(8) So much of Section 2 of Executive Order No. 10903 of  , as added paragraphs (s), (t), and (u) to Section 1 of Executive Order No.   of  .

(9) Executive Order No.   of August 21, 1961.

(10) Section 2 of Executive Order No.  .

(11) Section 1 of Executive Order No.   of  .

(12) Section 2(a) of Executive Order No. 11116 of  .

(13) Executive Order No. 11164 of  .

(14) Executive Order No.   of  .

 . 3. (a) Unless inappropriate, any reference in this   to any statute or to any provision of any statute shall be deemed to include reference thereto as amended from time to time.

(b) Unless inappropriate, any reference in any Executive order to any   order which is superseded by this  , or to any Executive order provision so superseded, shall hereafter be deemed to refer to this   or to the provision of Section 1 of this  , if any, which corresponds to the superseded provision.

 . 4. All actions heretofore taken by the President or by the Director of   in respect of the matters affected by the provisions of Section 1 of this   and in force at the time of the issuance of this  , including any regulations prescribed or approved by the President or by the Director of   in respect of such matters, shall, except as they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this  , remain in effect until amended, modified, or revoked pursuant to authority conferred by this   unless sooner terminated by operation of law.

 

 ,

 .
