Executive Order  —Establishing a Maritime Advisory Committee
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. Committee established. (a) There is hereby established a   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall be composed of:

(1) An equal number of representatives of the public at large, labor, and management, respectively, who shall be designated by the President and shall serve at his pleasure.

(2) The Secretary of  , who shall serve as chairman of the  .

(3) The Secretary of  .

(b) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Administrator of  , and the Director of   or their designee shall be present at all meetings of the  .

 . 2. Functions of the Committee. The   shall consider such matters of policy and administration of government programs affecting the Maritime industry as it deems to be in the public interest, including policies and practices which may be followed by labor, management, or the Government for strengthening the trade, national defense, manpower, and labor relations programs of the Maritime industry. The   shall also be the forum within which the recommendations of the representatives of public, labor and management members with respect to these matters shall be presented to and discussed with the Secretaries of Labor and   and such other   officials designated in Section 1 as may be appropriate.

 . 3. Procedure; agency cooperation. Subject to law, the   may use available appropriate studies and resources of Federal departments, agencies, committees, and commissions. All such departments, agencies, committees, and commissions shall cooperate with the   by furnishing information which it requests insofar as is reasonable and not inconsistent with law.

 . 4. Expenditures. (a) As may be necessary for the effectuation of the purposes of this order, each agency the head of which is a member of the   under the provisions of Section 1(a) hereof shall furnish assistance to the   as permitted by law, including Section 214 of the Act of May 3,1945,69 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).

(b) Members of the   shall receive no compensation from   by virtue of this order except that those members under Section 1(a) (1) who are representatives of the public at large shall each receive compensation of $75 for   such member is engaged in meetings of the   or is with the approval of the Chairman of the   engaged in other work in pursuance of this order. Members of  ) hereof may be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons serving without compensation.

 . 5. Construction. All functions of the   under the foregoing provisions of this order shall be deemed to be advisory only; accordingly, no Federal function, agency, or officer (including any   officer who under this order is a member of or may participate in the affairs of the  ) shall be subject to control by the   or by any action taken by the  .

 

 ,

 .
