Executive Order  —Reconstituting   on the Selection of Physicians,  , and   and  
 
 

WHEREAS   was established on  , at the direction of the President, and has been in operation continuously since that date; and

WHEREAS, in conformity with section 4 (j) of   of  , as amended (now  ),   on the Selection of Physicians,  , and   was established by Executive Order No.  , as amended; and

WHEREAS, in view of the similarity of the health manpower advisory functions of the two committees, the members of   were also designated as members of   on the Selection of Physicians,  , and  ; and

WHEREAS that common membership was designed to avoid any duplication of functions and to minimize the opportunity for conflicting Federal policies or competing requirements with respect to the use of health manpower; and

WHEREAS that common membership arrangement was discontinued in   and the two committees have had separate memberships since that time; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of experience under both arrangements, it has been determined that the purposes of the two committees can be better accomplished and the public interest would be better served if they share a common membership:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 303 of the National Security Act of  , as amended, and section 4 (j) of    , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established   on the Selection of Physicians,  , and  , which shall be composed of such members as may be appointed by the President pursuant to section 3 of this order.

(b) The   shall perform the functions prescribed by section 4(j) of    , as amended.

 . 2. (a) There is hereby established  , which shall be composed of such members as may be appointed by the President pursuant to section 3 of this order.

(b) The   shall advise the Director of   concerning the allocation, utilization, and administration of health resources, including manpower, material, and facilities under various mobilization situations and on problems of the nongovernmental health community relating to emergency preparedness. In carrying out these advisory functions, the   shall provide advice to the Director concerning, among other things, improved utilization and conservation of health manpower, health manpower data collection and interchange systems, the impact of warlike emergencies on the health industry and health services, the national medical emergency stockpile programs, and the vulnerability of the health industry.

 . 3. The   established by this order shall have a common membership consisting of twelve members to be appointed by the President from private life. The President shall designate one of those members to serve as chairman of both  . Such members shall, in conformity with section 4(j) of    , as amended, be selected from among individuals who are outstanding in medicine, dentistry, and the sciences allied thereto.

 . 4. (a) In carrying out their functions, the   shall, as appropriate, consult with the Director of   and such other officials and agencies as may be appropriate, including the Secretary of   and officials of  ,  , and  ,  ,  , and  , and  . The Director of   and the Director of   shall designate representatives from   and  , respectively, who shall attend all meetings of these  .

(b) All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   established by this order, and furnish them such available information as the   may need for the accomplishment of their functions.

 . 5.   and   shall, under such arrangements as may be mutually agreed upon, provide administrative and staff support and defray the necessary expenses of the   established by this order, including the compensation of members thereof within the limits of applicable law.   shall, within the limits of applicable law, defray the necessary expenses of those   and local   which may, in conformity with section 4(j) of    , as amended, be designated by   on the Selection of Physicians,  , and   . 6. In order to permit the establishment of a single membership for the two  , the appointment of present members of the two   shall expire as of the date of this order. Executive  .   and Executive Order No.   are hereby revoked.

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
