Executive  —Establishment of the Souris-Red-Rainy River Basins Commission
 
 

WHEREAS   (hereinafter referred to as the Act, 79 Stat. 244,   U.S.C.   et seq.) authorizes the President to declare the establishment of a river basin water and related land resources commission when a request for such a commission is addressed in writing to   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) by the Governor of a   within which all or part of the basin or basins concerned are located and when such a request is concurred in by the   and by not less than one-half of the States within which portions of the basin or basins concerned are located; and

WHEREAS the  , by resolution adopted  , concurred in the requests of the Governors of   and   to which the Governor of   has given his concurrence, and did itself request that the President declare the establishment of   under the provisions of section 201 of the Act; and

WHEREAS the requests of the Governors of   and   and the resolution of  , together with written concurrence by the Governor of  , satisfy the formal requirements of section 201 of the Act; and

WHEREAS the Governors of   and   have agreed to, and the Governor of   has concurred in, conditions relating to consolidation and termination of this  ; and

WHEREAS the Governor of the State of   has been consulted in regard to the small headwater area of the Souris River Basin in   that contributes a small quantity of water to the area of jurisdiction of the  ; and

WHEREAS it appears that it would be in the public interest and in keeping with the intent of   to declare the establishment of such a Commission:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 201 of the Act, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.  . It is hereby declared that   is established under the provisions of Title II of the Act.

 . 2. Jurisdiction of the Commission. It is hereby determined that the jurisdiction of the Souris-Red-Rainy River Basins Commission referred to in section 1 of this order (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) shall extend to those portions of  ,  , and   that are drained by   system, in accordance with the requests of the Governors of   and  , concurred in by the Governor of  , and in accordance with the resolution of the  .

 . 3. Membership of the Commission. It is hereby determined that, in accordance with section 202 of the Act, the   shall consist of the following:

(1) a Chairman to be appointed by the President,

(2) one member from each of the following   departments and agencies:  ,    , and  , and  , such member to be appointed by the head of each department or independent agency he represents,

(3) one member from each of the following  :  ,  , and  , and

(4) one member from each interstate agency created by an interstate compact to which the consent of   has been given and whose jurisdiction extends to the waters of the area specified in section 2.

 . 4. Functions to be performed. The   and its Chairman, members, and employees are hereby authorized to perform and exercise, with respect to the jurisdiction specified in section 2 of this order, the functions, powers, and duties of such a   and of such Chairman, members, and employees, respectively, as set out in Title II of the Act.

 . 5. Consultation with adjoining  . The   is expected to provide for procedures for consultation with   on any matter which might affect the water and related land resources of the small headwater drainage of the Souris River Basin in  , and to give notice to   of meetings of the  .

 . 6. International coordination. The Chairman of the   is hereby authorized and directed to refer to the   any matters under consideration by the   which relate to the areas of interest or jurisdiction of  ,   and  . The   shall consult on these matters as appropriate with   and   through its   for the purpose of enhancing international coordination.

 . 7. Consolidation and termination. Consideration shall be given to consolidating the   with a  , if and when such a commission is established. If a consolidation does not occur, the   shall terminate within   after the submission of the comprehensive river basin plan in accordance with section 204 (3) of the Act, or on  , whichever is earlier; unless, upon recommendation of both the   and not less than one-half the number of member States, this order is extended.

 . 8. Reporting to the President. The Chairman of the   shall report to the President through the  .

 

 

 

NOTE: For the announcement of the appointment of the first Federal Chairman of the  , see the following item.
