Executive Order  —Award and Presentation of the National Medal of Science
June 28, 1966
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Act of  , entitled "An Act To Establish a National Medal of Science To Provide Recognition for Individuals Who Make Outstanding Contributions in the Physical, Biological,  , and  ," 73 Stat. 431 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Award of Medal.

(a) The President shall award   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) established by the Act, the specifications of which are prescribed by Executive Order No.  , as amended, on the basis of recommendations received by him in accordance with the provisions of this   to individuals who in his judgment arc deserving of special recognition by reason of their outstanding contributions to knowledge in the physical, biological, mathematical, or engineering sciences.

(b) The following-described criteria shall govern the award of the  —

(1) Not more than twenty individuals shall be awarded the   in any one calendar year.

(2) No individual shall be awarded the   unless, at the time such award is made, he:

(A) is a citizen or other national of  ; or

(B) is an alien lawfully admitted to   for permanent residence who (i) has filed a petition for naturalization in the manner prescribed by Section 334 (b) of  , and (ii) is not permanently ineligible to become a citizen of  .

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (2) of this subsection, the   may be awarded posthumously, but only to individuals who, at the time of their death, met the conditions set forth in paragraph (2). The   shall not be awarded to any individual after the fifth anniversary of the day of his death.

(c) Each   awarded shall be suitably inscribed. Each individual awarded the   shall also receive a citation descriptive of the award.

(d) The presentation of the   shall be made in accordance with Section 2 (d) of the Act.

 . 2.

The President's Committee.

(a) There is hereby established   on   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), which shall be composed of twelve appointive members and one ex officio member and shall assist the President, as provided in this order, in connection with the carrying out of the Act.

(b) Each appointive member of the   shall be appointed by the President from among appropriately qualified citizens of  . Except as otherwise provided in subsection (e) of this Section, each such member shall be so appointed for a term of   or for the balance of the unexpired term of his predecessor, whichever is appropriate. Members may be reappointed to serve one additional term of  . As nearly as practicable, the appointive members of the   shall comprise a. cross section of the major fields of science and engineering.

(c) The President of   shall be an ex officio member of the  .

(d) The President shall from time to time designate one of the members of the   as chairman thereof.

(e) Of the persons first designated as members of the   under the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, four shall be designated to serve until  , four shall be designated to serve until  , and four shall be designated to serve until  .

 . 3.

Preliminary procedure.

(a) The   shall receive, on behalf of the President, (1) the recommendations made by   respecting the award of the   pursuant to the provisions of Section 2(a) of the Act, and (2) such similar recommendations as may be made by any other nationally representative scientific or engineering organization or other qualified source. Each such recommendation shall include or be accompanied by such appropriate supporting material as the   may from time to time specify.

(b) On the basis of such criteria, information, and evidence as it may deem appropriate, and subject to the provisions of Section 1 of this Order, the   shall designate, from among the individuals who are recommended in accordance with Section 3 (a) of this  , those individuals whom the   recommends for the award of the   and shall transmit the names of those individuals to the President, together with its recommendations. In so transmitting its recommendations, the   (1) shall include expressions of its views concerning, and such other information as may be pertinent to, its recommendations, and (2) may arrange the names of all or some of the recommended individuals in a sequence deemed by it to indicate the order of precedence in which the individuals involved deserve to receive the  .

(c) Each recommendation respecting the award of the   to an individual which is transmitted to the President by the   shall be accompanied by a draft of a citation describing the contributions which are being recognized by the award.

 . 4.

Time of awards and recommendations.

(a) Unless otherwise directed by the President, announcement of the award-of the. Medal shall be made during   of each calendar year and ceremonies for presentation of the   shall be held during   of the calendar year following the announcement of the award.

(b) Recommendations for awards of the Medals shall be submitted to the  , pursuant to Section 3(a) of this  , by   in which it is proposed that they be announced by the President. Recommendations of the   shall be delivered to the President by   in which it is proposed that they be announced. Awards of the   may be based upon recommendations of the   or upon such other information and evidence as the President deems appropriate.

 . 5.

Services and expenses.

(a)   is authorized to provide such assistance as may be necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  .

(b) The members of the   shall serve without compensation, but   is authorized to reimburse them for travel expenses and to pay them per diem in lieu. of subsistence as authorized for persons serving without compensation (5 U.S.C. 73b-2).

 . 6.

Prior orders.

(a) Subject to the provisions of this  , the President's Committee on   established by Section 2 of this   shall be deemed to constitute a continuation of   same name established by Executive Order No. 10961 of August 21, 1961. The latter   is hereby revoked.

(b) Executive Order No.  , is hereby amended by deleting from its title the words "AND AWARD", and by deleting the last two sentences of Section 1, and all of Section 2, thereof.

 

 

 

NOTE: On  ,   announced the appointment of 12 members of   on  , as follows:

For terms expiring  

DR.  , professor and head of  ,   (Chairman)

DR.  , Assistant Secretary of  

ROGER REVELLE, director,  ,  

DR. WALSH MCDERMOTT, professor of medicine,  

For terms expiring  

DR. MELVIN CALVIN, professor of chemistry,  .  , vice president for academic affairs,  

DR.  , professor of botany,  , professor of mathematics,  

For terms expiring  

DR.  , JR., professor and chairman of  ,  DR. ALVIN M. WEINBERG, director of  .  , president,  . GARDNER LINDZEY, professor and chairman of   of the appointees were also released by  .
