Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS   has initiated a number of programs in various   that should be made available for the development and benefit of the   population; and

WHEREAS these programs should be adapted and coordinated in such manner that   will participate in and be benefited by them:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Establishment of Council.

There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  "). The   shall have membership as follows: The Vice President of   who shall be the chairman of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and six   leaders appointed by the President of   for terms of  .

 . 2.

Functions of the  .

The   shall: (a) Encourage full use of Federal programs to benefit the   population, adapting them where necessary to be available to   on reservations in a meaningful way.

(b)Encourage interagency coordination and cooperation in carrying out Federal programs as they relate to  .

(c) Appraise the impact and progress of Federal programs for  .

(d) Suggest ways to improve such programs.

 . 3.

Compensation and per diem.

Members of the   who are officers of the Federal government shall receive no additional compensation by reason of this order. Other members of the   shall be entitled to receive compensation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons in the government service employed intermittently (5 U.S.C., §§ 3109,  ).

 . 4.

Assistance to the  .

(a) Each Federal department and agency represented on the   shall furnish such necessary assistance to the   as may be authorized by section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691), or other law.   shall furnish necessary administrative services for the  .

(b) The staff of the   shall include an Executive Director, who shall be appointed by the chairman of the  , and such other employees as may be necessary, who shall be assigned by the departments and agencies represented on the  .

 . 5.

Meetings.

The   shall meet on call of the chairman.

 

 

 
