Executive Order  —Providing for a Curator of   and  
 
 

WHEREAS  , as the home of the highest elective officer of  

—symbolizes the   ideal of responsible self-government

—is emblematic of our democracy and our national purpose

—has been intimately associated with the personal and social life of the Presidents of   and many of their official acts

—occupies a particular place in the heart of every   citizen, and

WHEREAS certain historic rooms and entranceways in  

—possess great human interest and historic significance —traditionally have been open to visitors

—have provided pleasure and patriotic inspiration to millions of our citizens

—have come to be regarded as a public museum and the proud possession of all  , and

WHEREAS the   by law (Act of  ), (75 Stat. 586) has authorized the care and preservation of the historic and artistic contents of   and has given the President certain responsibilities with regard thereto:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. (a) There shall be in  . The Curator shall assist in the preservation and protection of the articles of furniture, fixtures, and decorative objects used or displayed in the principal corridor on the ground floor and the principal public rooms on the first floor of  , and in such other areas in the White House as the President may designate.

(b) The Curator shall report to the President and shall make recommendations with respect to the articles, fixtures, and objects to be declared by the President, under section 2 of the Act of September 22, 1961, to be of historic or artistic interest.

 . 2. There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as  ". The   shall be composed of the Director of  , the Curator of the White House, the Secretary of  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , the Chief Usher of  , and seven other members to be appointed by the President. The Director of   shall serve as Chairman of the   and shall designate an employee of that Service to act as Executive Secretary of the  . Members of the   shall serve without compensation.

 . 3. (a) The   shall report to the President and shall advise the Director of   with respect to the discharge of his responsibility under the Act of  , for the preservation and the interpretation of the museum character of the principal corridor on the ground floor and the principal public rooms on the first floor of the White House. Among other things, the   shall make recommendations as to the articles of furniture, fixtures, and decorative objects which shall be used or displayed in the aforesaid areas of   and as to the decor and arrangements therein best suited to enhance the historic and artistic values of   and of such articles, fixtures, and objects.

(b) The   shall cooperate with  , a nonprofit organization heretofore formed under the laws of  .

(c) The   is authorized to invite individuals who are distinguished or interested in the fine arts to attend its meetings or otherwise to assist in carrying out its functions.

 . 4. Consonant with law, each   and agency represented on the   shall furnish necessary assistance to the   in accordance with section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).   shall furnish necessary administrative services for the  .

 

 ,

 
