Executive Order  —Permitting Certain Qualified Employees of   to be Given Career Appointment
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403) and Section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of   (5 U.S.C. 631) and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows—

Section 1. Any employee of   serving under an appointment under Schedule B of   in a position concerned with the protection of the life and safety of the President, members of his immediate family, or other persons for whom similar protective services are provided by law (which responsibility is hereinafter referred to as the protective function) may have his appointment converted to a career appointment if:

(1) he has completed   of full-time continuous service in a position concerned with the protective function;

(2) the Secretary of the  , or his designee, recommends the conversion of the employee's appointment within   after the employee meets the service requirements of this section, or within   after the date of this  , whichever is later;

(3) he shall have passed a competitive examination appropriate for the position he is occupying or meets noncompetitive examination standards   prescribes for his position; and

(4) he meets all other requirements prescribed by the   pursuant to Section 5 of this Order.

 . 2. For the purposes of Section 1—

(1) "full-time continuous service" means service without a break of more than 30 calendar days;

(2) except as provided in paragraph (3) of this section, active service in   shall be deemed to be fulltime continuous service in a position concerned with the protective function if the employee concerned shall have left a position concerned with the protective function to enter   and shall have been re-employed in a position concerned with the protective function within   after he shall have been discharged from   under honorable conditions; and

(3) active service in the   shall not be deemed to be full-time continuous service in a position concerned with the protective function if such active service exceeds a total of   plus any period of additional service imposed pursuant to law.

 . 3. Any employee who shall have left a position concerned with the protective function to enter active service in  , who is re-employed in such a position within   after his discharge under honorable conditions from such service, and who meets the requirements of Section 1 as the result of being credited with his period of active service in the   pursuant to Section 2(2), may have his appointment converted if the Secretary of the  , or his designee, recommends that conversion within   after his re-employment.

 . 4. Whenever the Secretary of the  , or his designee, decides not to recommend conversion of the appointment of an employee under this   or whenever the Secretary, or his designee, recommends conversion and the employee fails to qualify, the employee shall be separated by the date on which his current   B appointment expires.

 . 5.   shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this  .

 

 ,

 .
