Executive Order  —  on Pennsylvania Avenue
 
 

WHEREAS Pennsylvania Avenue between the Capitol and   serves as the main ceremonial avenue connecting the centers of the   and Executive Branches of  ; and

WHEREAS parts of Pennsylvania Avenue have been in large measure developed in a manner consistent therewith; and

WHEREAS other parts of Pennsylvania Avenue have deteriorated in condition and design or are otherwise ill suited to the ceremonial purposes of the   and to the   dignity; and

WHEREAS the President's   called the attention of the President to the deterioration and obsolescence of Pennsylvania Avenue and recommended that he enlist the aid of the finest architectural talent in the   to develop plans for the improvement of Pennsylvania Avenue to reflect its   significance; and

WHEREAS the President requested distinguished members of the architectural and city planning profession to serve on a   on Pennsylvania Avenue and to develop a plan for the improvement of the   to a level commensurate with its   purpose; and

WHEREAS  , in support of this objective, appropriated funds to assist in the preparation of such plans; and

WHEREAS the President's   has developed a general plan for the improvement of the  , and the   has been dissolved; and

WHEREAS the plan developed by   on Pennsylvania Avenue has been subjected to extensive review by   and other interested departments and agencies and has been deemed appropriate in its main outlines; and

WHEREAS the   will be asked to consider legislation to provide for the improvement of Pennsylvania Avenue:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.   on Pennsylvania Avenue, (a) There is hereby established   on Pennsylvania Avenue (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General,  ,  ,  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , the Secretary of  , the President of   of  , the Director of  , and such other members as may be appointed by the President. The Chairman shall invite the Architect of the Capitol to be a member of the  .

(c) The President shall appoint from among its members a Chairman of the   who shall direct its activities.

(d) Members of the   who are officers or employees of the   shall receive no additional compensation by virtue of membership on the  . Other members of the   shall be entitled to receive compensation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

(e) The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairman.

 . 2. Functions of the  , (a) The   shall advise the President with respect to:

(1) the component parts of the general plan submitted by the President's   on Pennsylvania Avenue respecting their feasibility and practicability from the standpoint of financial, engineering, planning, and other relevant considerations;

(2) the development of an orderly, phased program for carrying out the improvement of Pennsylvania Avenue;

(3) effects of the proposed improvements on owners and occupants of private property in and adjoining the area to be improved and actions respecting the improvement program that will assure its achievement with minimum harmful effects upon such private interests and with the least disruption of business within and adjoining the area;

(4) appropriate legislation for carrying out the program of improvement;

(b) Take steps to assure that such recommendations as it may develop respecting plans and programs for the improvement of Pennsylvania Avenue and   for   and other plans prepared or being prepared by   are properly coordinated.

(c) Promote an understanding of the plan and its objectives among the public generally; and

(d) Undertake such other actions as may be permitted by law and requested by the President in furtherance of the objectives of this order.

 . 3. Commission staff and consultants. (a) The Chairman is authorized to appoint such personnel as may be necessary to assist the   in connection with the performance of its functions.

(b) The   is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 15 of the Act of   (5U.S.C.55a).

 . 4. Federal agencies. (a) As deemed necessary to facilitate the work of the  , the Chairman may request the head of any Executive department or agency whose activities may relate to the objectives of the   to designate a liaison officer to consult with the   on matters of common concern.

(b) Upon request of the Chairman,   department or agency is authorized and directed, consistent with law, to furnish the   available information which the   may require in the performance of its functions.

(c) Each Federal agency represented on the   shall furnish such necessary assistance to the   as may be authorized by Section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31U.S.C. 691).

(d)   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the  .

 

 ,

 .
