Executive Order  —Establishment of  
 
 

WHEREAS   (hereinafter referred to as the Act, 79 Stat. 244,   U.S.C.   et seq.) authorizes the President to declare the establishment of a river basin water and related land resources commission when a request for such a commission is addressed in writing to   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) by the Governor of a   within which all or part of the basin or basins concerned are located and when such a request is concurred in by the   and by not less than one-half of the States within which portions of the basin or basins concerned are located, and in the event the Columbia River Basin is involved, by at least three of the four   of  ,  ,  , and  ; and

WHEREAS the  , by resolution adopted  , concurred in the requests of the Governors of the States of  ,  ,  ,  , and  ; and did itself request that the President declare the establishment of   under the provisions of section 201 of the Act; and

WHEREAS the requests of the Governors of the States of  ,  ,  ,  , and  , and the resolution of  , satisfy the formal requirements of section 201 of the Act; and

WHEREAS the Governors of  ,  , and   have been consulted in regard to small headwater areas in these respective   that contribute small quantities of water to or use small quantities of water from the area of jurisdiction of the  ; and

WHEREAS it appears that it would be in the public interest and in keeping with the intent of   to declare the establishment of such a Commission:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 201 of the Act, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.  . It is hereby declared that   is established under the provisions of Title II of the Act.

 . 2. Jurisdiction of the Commission. It is hereby determined that the jurisdiction of   referred to in section 1 of this order (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) shall extend to the entire area of the State of  ; the entire area of    , except that drained by the Klamath River system, the   system, and that area draining into  ; and those portions of the States of  ,  , and   lying within the Columbia River drainage, in accordance with the requests of the Governors of  ,  ,  ,  , and  , and in accordance with the resolution of the  .

 . 3. Membership of the Commission. It is hereby determined that, in accordance with section 202 of the Act, the   shall consist of the following:

(1) a Chairman to be appointed by the President,

(2) one member from each of the following   departments and agencies:  ,    , and  , and  , such member to be appointed by the head of each department or independent agency he represents,

(3) one member from each of the following  :  ,  ,  ,  , and  ,

(4) one member from each interstate agency created by an interstate compact to which the consent of   has been given and whose jurisdiction extends to the waters of the area specified in section 2, and

(5) the Chairman of   the Columbia River Treaty.

 . 4. Functions to be performed. The   and its Chairman, members, and employees are hereby authorized to perform and exercise, with respect to the jurisdiction specified in section 2 of this order, the functions, powers, and duties of such a   and of such Chairman, members, and employees, respectively, as set out in Title II of the Act.

 . 5. Consultation with adjoining  . The   is expected to provide for procedures for consultation with  ,  , and   on any matter which might affect the water and related land resources of the small headwater drainages in each of these   that drain into the area of jurisdiction of the  , and to give notice to these   of meetings of the  .

 . 6.  . The Chairman of the   is hereby authorized and directed to refer to the   any matters under consideration by the   which relate to the areas of interest or jurisdiction of  ,   and  . The   shall consult on these matters as appropriate with   and   through its   for the purpose of enhancing international coordination.

 . 7. Reporting to the President. The Chairman of the   shall report to the President through the  .

 

 

 NOTE: Executive Order   was released at  ,  .
