Executive Order  —Providing Federal Assistance in  
 

WHEREAS, on  , I issued proclamation No.  , pursuant in part to the provisions of Section 334 of Title 10, United States Code; and

WHEREAS, the likelihood of domestic violence and obstruction of the execution and enforcement of the laws of   referred to therein continues:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, particularly Sections 332, 333, and 334 thereof, and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The Secretary of   is authorized and directed, for the period commencing with the signing of this order and ending as soon as practicable after the termination of the march referred to in the above-mentioned proclamation, to take all appropriate steps, including the provision of assistance to the law enforcement agencies of the   or  , to remove obstructions to the execution and enforcement of the laws of   in that state, including the order of the court referred to in the above-mentioned proclamation, and to suppress domestic violence in any way related to the said march.

 . 2. In furtherance of the authorization and direction contained in Section 1 hereof, the Secretary of   is authorized to use such of   as he may deem necessary.

 . 3. I hereby authorize and direct the Secretary of   to call into the active military service of  , as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order, any or all of the units or members of   and of   of   to serve in the active military service of   until relieved by appropriate orders. The Secretary of   is further authorized to recall any unit or member so relieved if he deems such recall appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order. In carrying out the provisions of Section 1, the Secretary of   is authorized to use the units, and members thereof, called or recalled into the active military services of   pursuant to this section.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to delegate to the Secretary of the   or the Secretary of  , or both, any of the authority conferred upon him by this order.

 

 1:30 a.m.

 
