Executive Order  —Amending Executive Order No.  , Relating to   on Consumer Interests and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

"The consumer's interest is the   interest, for we are all consumers. In filling the needs of our   lives, we are direct purchasers of two thirds of our total national production.

"The success of our competitive economic system depends on the furtherance of the consumer interest. And it is our free marketplace, working for the benefit of the individual, that has given to the   consumer the highest standard of living the world has ever known.

"The consumer has four very basic rights in that marketplace—the right to be informed about the products he buys; the right to choose between several varieties of those products; the right to be protected from unsafe products; and the right to be heard in the highest councils of government.

"It is our job to assure the preservation of those rights. To do so, we must have the cooperation of business and industry, as well as of the consumer. They are all integral, interacting, indispensable elements of our economic system. They must have mutual trust, mutual respect, and a mutual dedication to a sound and healthy  .

"Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

"PART I. PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE ON CONSUMER INTERESTS

"SECTION 101. Establishment of the  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ).

"(b) The   shall be composed of the Special Assistant to the President for  ; the Chairman of  ; the Director of  ; the Attorney General; the Postmaster General; the Secretary of the  ; the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  , and  ; the Secretary of  ; the Chairman of  ;  ; and such other   officials as the President may designate.

"(c) The Chairman of the   shall be the Special Assistant to the President for  . The Chairman shall direct and supervise any staff employed by or detailed to the  .

"(d) When matters are to be considered by the   which affect the interests of Federal agencies the heads of which are not members of the  , the Chairman of the   shall invite such agency heads to participate in the deliberations of the  .

" . 102. Functions of the  . (a) The   shall study the plans and programs of Federal agencies affecting consumer interests. The   shall make recommendations to the President on questions of policy relating to consumer affairs; may conduct studies of matters related to consumer interests; and shall encourage and assist Federal agencies to accomplish effective coordination of plans and programs affecting consumers.

"(b) In carrying out the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the   shall, as far as may be practicable, advise   agencies with respect to the effect of their respective plans and programs on consumer matters, and may suggest to such agencies procedures which the   believes will better protect consumer interests. Such plans and programs may include, but shall not be limited to, those relating to (1) the scope of Federal action in consumer matters, and (2) cooperation with the   and their local subdivisions and With private organizations and individuals in areas of consumer interest.

" . 103. Assistance and cooperation. (a) The   agencies headed by the officers composing the   shall, as may be necessary for effectuating the purposes of this order, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with Section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).

"(b) Upon request of the Chairman of the  , each Federal agency shall, to the extent consistent with law, furnish information, data, and reports needed by the   to accomplish the purposes of this order.

"(c) All Federal officials, in carrying out their statutory responsibilities and programs, shall be mindful of the objectives of this order, and shall take such measures, consistent with their authorities and available funds, as will assist in effectuating the consumer programs with which they are concerned.

"(d)   shall provide administrative services for the Committee on a reimbursable basis.

" . 101. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or the head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.

PART II.  Sec. 201. Establishment of Council. There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ) which shall be composed of not more than 12 members appointed by the President. The President shall designate the Chairman of the   from among its members. Initial appointments to membership on the   shall be for   terms. Successors shall be appointed for terms of  , as specified by the President, and all appointments thereafter shall be for   terms. Any person chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the member whom he succeeds.

" . 202. Duties and responsibilities. (a) The   shall advise the President and the   on matters relating to the consumer interest.

"(b) The   shall advise and assist the   in evaluating the progress made in carrying out the functions of the   and recommend to the  , as necessary, action to accelerate such progress.

"(c) The Chairman of the  , through the Chairman of the  , may request information relating to the functions of the   as set forth in Section 102(a) above, and the  , on its own motion, may initiate consideration of items which relate to carrying out those functions.

"(d) The Chairman of the   shall be responsible for assuring that the meetings and other activities of the   are carried out in accordance with the relevant provisions of Executive Order No.   of  .

" . 203. Expenses. Expenses of the   shall be met from funds available to the  . Members of the   shall, for   a member is engaged in meetings or is, with the approval of the Chairman of the  , engaged in other work in pursuance of this order, receive compensation at a rate determined by the Chairman of the  , and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ; 5 U.S.C.  )."

LYNDON B. JOHNSON

 

 
