Executive Order  —Establishing a President's   and   
 

With each passing year   becomes more thoroughly a nation of cities. Of our two hundred million citizens, 135 million live in major urban areas. The proportion of city-dwellers is certain to rise in   to come.

The problems, and the opportunities, of city life have dominated our thoughts in  . We have devoted billions of dollars, and millions of man-hours, to planning and building better cities for our people.

Yet beyond the limits of the city there lies another  .

It is the   of forests and great plains, of mountains and valleys, of quiet lakes and lonely shores. In that  , the changing of the seasons is more than the turning of pages on a calendar. It is the cycle of decay and rebirth on which all natural life depends.

To be isolated from that natural   is to be impoverished—no matter how affluent one may be. To destroy it, to treat it carelessly, is to disregard one of the profound needs of the human spirit.

We know that we must keep open the avenues between the city and the natural   that surrounds it. We know that part of the good life in the city is the opportunity to leave it from time to time—to be refreshed by a world no human hand has fashioned.

Because the   administers massive programs that affect the natural beauty of our land, it must pursue a course that will enhance and protect that beauty. It must stimulate action in behalf of natural beauty and outdoor recreation on the part of others— of   and local governments, of private organizations and individual citizens.

If it is to do this well, its own house must be in order. Its programs must be wise, and they must be coordinated. Its organization must reflect its responsibilities.

Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

PART   COUNCIL ON RECREATION AND NATURAL BEAUTY

SECTION 101.

Membership and chairmanship.

(a) There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as  ") which shall be composed of the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of   of  , and  . Each of the foregoing officers may appoint a delegate to represent him in   activities.

(b) The chairmanship of the   shall rotate among the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , in the order named, for terms of   each. Prior service as chairman of  , established by Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, shall be construed as service as chairman of   of such rotation.

(c) When matters are to be considered by the   which affect the interests of Federal agencies (including, as used in this order, executive departments and other executive agencies) the heads of which are not members of the  , the chairman of the   shall invite such heads to participate in the deliberations of the  .

 . 102.

Functions of the  .

(a) The   shall review plans and programs of Federal agencies for or affecting outdoor recreation and natural beauty. The   shall make recommendations to the President on matters of policy in the fields of outdoor recreation and natural beauty. The   may conduct studies in those fields and shall encourage and assist Federal agencies to accomplish effective coordination in such fields.

(b) In carrying out the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the   shall, as far as may be practical, advise   agencies with respect to the effect of their respective plans and programs on recreation and natural beauty, and may suggest to such agencies procedures to better accomplish the purposes of this order. For the purposes of this order, plans and programs may include, but are not limited to, those for or affecting: (1) development, restoration, and preservation of the beauty of the countryside, urban and suburban areas, water resources, wild rivers, scenic roads, parkways and highways, (2) the protection and appropriate management of scenic or primitive areas, natural wonders, historic sites, and recreation areas, (3) the management of Federal land and water resources, including fish and wildlife, to enhance natural beauty and recreational opportunities consistent with other essential uses, (4) cooperation with the   and their local subdivisions and private organizations and individuals in areas of mutual interest, (5) interstate arrangements, including Federal participation where authorized and necessary, and (6) vigorous and cooperative leadership in a nationwide recreation and beautification effort.

 . 103.

Coordination.

The Secretary of the   may make available to the   for promoting coordination of outdoor recreation the authorities and resources available to him under the Act of  , 77 Stat.  ; to the extent permitted by law, he may make such authorities and resources available to the   also for promoting coordination in natural beauty.

 . 104.

  and cooperation.

(a) The   agencies headed by the officers composing the   shall furnish necessary assistance to the   in consonance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).

(b) The staff of the   shall include an Executive Director, from  , and one individual appointed by each member of the  .

(c) Upon request of the chairman of the  , each Federal agency shall, to the extent permitted by law and within available funds, furnish information, data, and reports needed by the   to accomplish the purposes of this order.

(d) All Federal officials, in carrying out their statutory responsibilities and programs, shall be mindful of the objectives of this order, shall take into account any advice given by  ) herein, and shall take such measures, consistent with their authorities and available funds, as will assist in protecting and enhancing the outdoor recreation opportunities and the natural beauty of the Nation.

 . 105.

Construction.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or the head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.

 . 106.

Prior orders.

Executive Order No.   of  , Executive Order No.   of  , and Executive Order No.   of  , are hereby superseded.

PART II.  '   . 201.

Establishment.

There is hereby established the   (hereinafter referred to as  ") which shall be composed of not more than 12 members appointed by the President. Appointments to membership on the   shall be for   initially, but for staggered terms thereafter, except that the chairman of the   shall be appointed by the President to serve until his successor is appointed.

 . 202.

Duties and responsibilities.

(a) The   shall advise both the President and the   on matters relating to (1) outdoor recreation and the beautification of our  's cities and countryside, (2) the correlation of natural beauty and outdoor recreation activities by Federal agencies and bureaus, and (3) local,  , and private outdoor recreation and natural beauty activities.

(b) The   shall advise and assist the   in the evaluation of the progress made in carrying out the functions of the   and recommend to the  , as necessary, action to accelerate such progress.

(c) The   may, on its own motion, request information relating to the functions set forth in Section 202(a), above, and initiate consideration of items which relate to those functions.

 . 203.

Expenses.

Members of the   shall receive no compensation from   by reason of their services under this order but may, subject to law, be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence.

 

 

 
