Executive Order  —Relating to    , and for Other Purposes
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), Reorganization Plan No. 8 of 1953 (67 Stat. 642), Reorganization Plan No. 4 of   (79 Stat.  ),   90-494 (82 Stat. 810), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Policies and Regulations. The Secretary of   with respect to   personnel and retirement systems and the Director of   with respect to   personnel system of   shall promul6te policies and related regulations governing such systems after consultation with the Director of   and the Chairman of  .

 . 2. Board of     for  .   and   for   established by Executive Order No.   of  , as hereinafter amended, shall exercise with respect to   information officers the functions delegated to them by that order with respect to   officers. The Boards shall perform such additional functions with respect to   personnel of   as the Director may from time to time delegate or otherwise assign.

 . 3. Foreign. Service Retirement and Disability System. The authority vested in the President by Sections 9 (b) and 16(a) of Public Law 90-494 to prescribe regulations relating to participation of   staff officers and employees of   and   officers with unlimited tenure, respectively, in   is hereby delegated to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. Amendment of Executive Order No.  . Section 21 of Executive Order No.   of  , is amended as follows:

(a) Paragraph (2) of subsection (b) is amended by deleting "(iii)  " and redesignating subdivision (iv) as subdivision (iii).

(b) Paragraph (3) of subsection (b) is redesignated as paragraph (4) and the following new paragraph (3) is added:

"(3) Two officials of   who shall be designated as members of the   by the Director of  ."

(c) Subsection (d) is amended by substituting "sub-section (b) (1), (b) (2) or (b) (3)" for "subsection (b) (1) or (b) (2)."

 . 5.  . This order shall be effective as of  , and the Secretary of   and the Director of  , in their discretion and consistent with law, may make rules and regulations pursuant to this order effective on or after that date.

 

 

 

NOTE: For the President's statement upon signing the   order,   the preceding item.
