Executive Order  —  Disputes Affecting the Military Jet Engine Industry, Military Aircraft Industry, Military Armament Industry and Military Electronics Industry of  
 
 

WHEREAS, there have existed certain labor disputes between   and certain of its employees represented by:   and  ,  ;  ,  ;  ,  , Aerospace and  , AFL-CIO;  ,  , AFL-CIO;  ,  ;    , AFL-CIO;  , AFL-CIO;  , AFL-CIO;   and  ;   of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of   and  ,  ;  , AFL-CIO;  , AFL-CIO;  ,  , Warehousemen and  ;  , AFL-CIO;  ,  ;  ; and

WHEREAS, although a tentative resolution of these disputes was arrived at by the parties, or some of them, nevertheless there is a strike at the  ,  , plant of   by Local No. 647 of    , AFL—CIO, and Locals 34 and 912 of   workers, AFL— CIO, and there exists a threat that there will be further strikes at   plants by one or more of the aforesaid international unions or local units thereof; and

WHEREAS, the existing strike at the  ,  , plant of   will, in my opinion, if permitted to continue, affect a substantial part of the military jet engine industry, which industry is engaged in trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several states or with foreign nations, or engaged in the production of goods for commerce, and which strike, if permitted to continue, will imperil the national safety; and

WHEREAS, threatened strikes at other   plants will, in my opinion, if allowed to occur, affect a substantial part of the military jet engine industry, military aircraft industry, military armament industry and military electronics industry, which industries are engaged in trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several states or with foreign nations, or engaged in the production of goods for commerce, and which threatened strikes, if permitted to occur, will imperil the national safety;

NOW THEREFORE by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 206 of   of   (61 Stat. 155 ; 29 U.S.C. 176), I hereby create a  , consisting of Mr.  , Chairman, Mr.   and Mr.  , whom I appoint to inquire into the issues involved in these disputes.

The   shall have powers and duties as set forth in Title II of such Act. The   shall report to the President in accordance with the provisions of Section 206 of such Act. With respect to the dispute giving rise to the strike at  ,  , plant it shall report on or before  , and with respect to the dispute or disputes resulting in any other such strike, it shall report as soon as possible.

Upon the submission of its report or reports, the   shall continue in existence to perform such other functions as may be required under such Act.

 

 

 .
