Executive Order  —Food-for-Peace Program
 
 

Whereas

the Food-for-Peace Program has fulfilled and continues to fulfill the hopes of its creators and is providing   with a significant new medium for advancing the cause of world peace and understanding through the use of our agricultural abundance to alleviate hunger, malnutrition, and privation among our neighbors abroad; and

Whereas

the objectives of the Food-for-Peace Program can now best be achieved by vesting responsibility for the   in the Secretary of  , the   official chiefly responsible for our policies and programs abroad, so that the activities of this   will be coordinated, consolidated, and carried out more effectively with related activities of   abroad; and

Whereas

the Secretary of   will be able to discharge these responsibilities more effectively through a special assistant specifically designated to assist him in carrying out the Food-for-Peace Program;

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by subsection (f) of Section 303 of the Government Employees Salary Reform Act of   and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows: 409

SECTION 1. All functions of the Director of the Food-for-Peace Program, including those under Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, and under the   memorandum of  , relating to the Food-for-Peace Program (26  ), are hereby transferred to the Secretary of  ; and that order and memorandum are modified accordingly.

 . 2. There shall be in   Assistant to the Secretary of   who shall assist the Secretary as the latter may direct in connection with the carrying out of the functions of the Secretary under this order and shall perform such other duties as the Secretary may direct.

 . 3. Section 1 of Executive Order No. 11248 of  , is amended by adding thereto the following:

"(3) Special Assistant to the Secretary (Food-for-Peace Program),  ."

 . 4. This order shall take effect on  .

 

 

 

NOTE: The text of Executive Order   was released at the Naval Hospital,  ,  
