Executive Order  —Establishing   on   Fellowships
 
 

WHEREAS it is in the national interest that our future leaders in all walks of life have opportunities to observe at firsthand the important and challenging tasks of  ; and

WHEREAS participation in   service early in their careers will help young persons with high qualifications to become well-informed and public-spirited citizens; and

WHEREAS it is appropriate that public recognition be given to young persons of exceptional promise who are willing to devote their time to increasing their understanding of the public business:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment of Commission.

(a) There is hereby established   on  , hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall consist of such outstanding citizens from the fields of public affairs, education, the sciences, the professions, other fields of private endeavor, and the Government service, as the President may from time to time appoint. One of the members appointed from private life shall be designated by the President to serve as Chairman of the  .

(b) Members of the   shall serve at the pleasure of the President. Federal officials shall receive no additional compensation by reason of their service on the  . Members appointed to the   from private life shall serve without compensation.

 . 2.

Functions of the Commission.

(a) The   shall prescribe such standards and procedures as may be necessary to enable it to recommend   a group of outstanding young persons from among whom the President may select  . Following publication of such standards and procedures, the   may accept (1) applications from individuals, and (2) nominations from   sources, for consideration for its recommendation.

(b) The standards and procedures to be prescribed by the   shall be so drawn as to limit the selection of   to persons who—

(1) Have demonstrated unusual ability, high moral character, outstanding motivation, and a broad capacity for leadership;

(2) Show exceptional promise of future development;

(3) Are dedicated to the institutions of   and the values of   civilization; and

(4) Will have attained   but not the age of thirty-six prior to the beginning of their service.

(c)   Fellows shall be recommended by the   and selected by the President without discrimination on the basis of sex, race, color, creed, national origin, or political affiliation.

 . 3.

White House Fellows.

White House Fellows will be appointed to serve for   on the staff of  , the Vice President's office, or the offices of the heads of the ten executive departments, as they may be assigned, beginning on or about June 1 of the year in which they are selected.   may, with the approval of the  , accept reasonable fellowship stipends from private nonprofit organizations.

 . 4.

 .

(a) Consonant with law, each Federal agency which may be represented on the   shall furnish necessary assistance to the   as authorized by section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).

(b)   shall provide administrative assistance for the   and, upon the request of the  , shall assist in the conduct of the  's work.

 

 ,

 
