Executive Order  —Amending Executive Order No. 11175 Relating to   or   Issues Where Required for International Monetary Stability
 
 

WHEREAS I have determined that the exclusion from the interest equalization tax, to the extent provided in this order, is necessary to avoid such consequences for   as to imperil or threaten to imperil the stability of the international monetary system;

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue, of the authority vested in me by  ) of   of  , as added by section 2 of  , approved   (Public Law 88-563), by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered that Executive Order No.  , dated  , be, and it is hereby, amended to read as follows:

SECTION 1. Except as provided in section 2, the tax imposed by section 4911 of   of   shall not apply to the acquisition by a   person of stock or a debt obligation of   or a political subdivision thereof, any agency or instrumentality of  , any corporation, partnership, or trust organized under the laws of   or a political subdivision thereof, or any individual resident in  , if such stock or debt obligation is acquired as all or part of an original or new issue as to which there is filed the notice of acquisition prescribed by the Secretary of the   or his delegate.

 . 2. The exclusion from tax provided in section 1 shall not apply to the following:

(a) Any acquisition of stock or a debt obligation of a company registered under   of 1940 (54 Stat. 847; 15 U.S.C. 80a-1 to 80a-52); and

(b) Any acquisition of stock or a debt obligation of a   corporation, partnership, or trust formed or availed of for the principal purpose of acquiring stock or debt obligations of a   or other foreign issuer or obligor, other than stock or debt obligations described in section 1 or in section 4916(a) of   of  .

 . 3. The provisions of sections 1 and 2 shall be applicable to any acquisition by a commercial bank of a debt obligation described in such sections, and section 3 of Executive Order No.  , dated  , is hereby superseded.

 . 4. The Secretary of the   or his delegate is authorized to prescribe from time to time regulations, rulings, directions, and instructions to carry out the purpose of this order.

 . 5. This order shall be effective upon its filing for publication in   and shall apply to all acquisitions made during the period this order is in effect.

 

 

 NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
