118 SRES 607 IS: Condemning the Nicaraguan Government’s unjust imprisonment of individuals affiliated with Mountain Gateway Order, Inc.
U.S. Senate
2024-03-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 607
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 21, 2024
Mr. Scott of Florida
(for himself,
Mr. Tuberville
,
Mr. Cruz
,
Mrs. Britt
, and
Mr. Cramer
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Condemning the Nicaraguan Government’s unjust imprisonment of individuals affiliated with Mountain Gateway Order, Inc.
Whereas, in December, 2023, 11 individuals affiliated with Mountain Gateway Order, Inc. were arrested by the Government of Nicaragua, namely: Marcos Sergio Hernández Jirón; Harry Lening Rios Bravo; Manuel de Jesús Ríos Flores; José Luis Orozco Urrutia; Álvaro Daniel Escobar Caldera; Juan Carlos Chavarría Zapata; Juan Luis Moncada; Orvin Alexis Moncada Castellano, César Facundo Burgalin Miranda, Walner Omier Blandón Ochoa, and Marisela de Fátima Mejía Ruiz;
Whereas there is concern that the Government of Nicaragua has charged each of these individuals for crimes on baseless claims of money laundering and organized crime;
Whereas the accused individuals do not have adequate access to legal counsel;
Whereas there is concern that United States citizens affiliated with Mountain Gateway Order, Inc. are being targeted for arrest and extradition by the Government of Nicaragua;
Whereas this follows a pattern by the Government of Nicaragua to quell the free speech and religious rights of Christians and other nongovernmental organizations in Nicaragua;
Whereas, on November 30, 2022, in accordance with the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (
22 U.S.C. 6401 et seq.
), the Secretary of State designated Nicaragua as a
Country of Particular Concern
for having engaged in or tolerated particularly severe violations of religious freedom;
Whereas the Government of Nicaragua’s actions are another example of an extreme intolerance of religious organizations; and
Whereas Congress has a vested interest in upholding international religious freedom and human rights: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
condemns the targeting and imprisonment of individuals affiliated with Mountain Gateway Order, Inc. without due process of law; and
(2)
calls on the Government of Nicaragua to take prompt action to address these violations of religious freedom and international human rights.
