118 SRES 640 ATS: Commemorating and supporting the goals of “World Quantum Day”.
U.S. Senate
2024-04-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 640
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
April 15, 2024
Mr. Young
(for himself,
Ms. Hassan
,
Mrs. Blackburn
, and
Ms. Cantwell
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Commemorating and supporting the goals of
World Quantum Day
.
Whereas quantum physics describes nature at the scale of atoms and subatomic particles;
Whereas
World Quantum Day
is celebrated by scientists in more than 70 countries to promote public understanding of quantum science and technology around the world;
Whereas the United States has recognized quantum information science, engineering, and technology as a key technology area for economic competition;
Whereas quantum physics helps us to understand and develop technologies critical to everyday life, such as GPS, semiconductors, and lasers;
Whereas quantum information science is a multidisciplinary field, bridging science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (referred to in this preamble as
STEM
);
Whereas STEM is a critical part of education for children, and aptitude in STEM is essential for a knowledge-based society and for economic competition;
Whereas the United States needs to reinforce STEM education for all students in order to better prepare children for future careers in emerging technologies, including quantum, to succeed in a 21st-century economy;
Whereas STEM can be a fun and interesting part of education for children, and learning about quantum principles of superposition and entanglement can be an engaging way to teach children and attract the children to study STEM;
Whereas the Planck constant is a fundamental constant governing quantum physics, which is used to define universal measurements such as the kilogram; and
Whereas the rounded first significant digits of the Planck constant are 4.14, and thus April 14 of each year is internationally recognized as “World Quantum Day”: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the goals of
World Quantum Day
to recognize and celebrate the role that quantum physics plays in our daily lives; and
(2)
encourages schools and educators to observe the day with appropriate activities that teach students about quantum physics and engage students in the study of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
