118 SRES 939 IS: Commending and congratulating the Hutchinson Community College Blue Dragons football team for winning the 2024 National Junior College Athletic Association Football National Championship.
U.S. Senate
2024-12-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 939
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
December 20 (legislative day, December 16), 2024
Mr. Moran
(for himself and
Mr. Marshall
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
RESOLUTION
Commending and congratulating the Hutchinson Community College Blue Dragons football team for winning the 2024 National Junior College Athletic Association Football National Championship.
Whereas, on Wednesday, December 18, 2024, the Hutchinson Community College Blue Dragons football team (in this preamble referred to as the
Blue Dragons
’) defeated the Iowa Western Community College Reivers by a score of 28 to 23 in the 2024 National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA) National Championship game;
Whereas the 2024 NJCAA National Championship is the second championship in the history of the Blue Dragons’ football program;
Whereas the Blue Dragons finished the 2024 season with an 11 wins to 1 loss record;
Whereas, during the championship game, the Blue Dragons outscored the Reivers 28 to 9 in the last 3 quarters, after trailing by 14 points in the first quarter;
Whereas quarterback Christian Johnson entered the game in the third quarter and completed a 34-yard pass to take the lead for the first time in the game;
Whereas the Blue Dragons defense held the Reivers to 6 points in the second half;
Whereas running back Waymond Jordan Jr. was named the NJCAA Player of the Year in 2024; and
Whereas head coach Drew Dallas won his second championship in 5 seasons as head coach of Hutchinson Community College: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
commends the Hutchinson Community College Blue Dragons football team for winning the 2024 National Junior College Athletic Association Football National Championship;
(2)
recognizes the players, coaches, and staff of the Hutchinson Community College Blue Dragons football team; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the president of Hutchison Community College, Tricia Paramore;
(B)
the athletic director of Hutchison Community College, Josh Gooch; and
(C)
the head coach of the Hutchinson Community College Blue Dragons football team, Drew Dallas.
