118 SRES 680 IS: Condemning the violent, anti-American and anti-Israel protests that are occurring on campuses of institutions of higher education nationwide.
U.S. Senate
2024-05-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 680
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
May 9, 2024
Mr. Budd
(for himself,
Mr. Lee
,
Mr. Risch
,
Mr. Crapo
,
Mr. Rubio
,
Mr. Cruz
,
Mrs. Blackburn
,
Mr. Tuberville
,
Ms. Ernst
, and
Mr. Barrasso
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Condemning the violent, anti-American and anti-Israel protests that are occurring on campuses of institutions of higher education nationwide.
Whereas the Department of State designated Hamas as a foreign terrorist organization in October of 1997;
Whereas the attack on Israel by Hamas on October 7, 2023, was tragic and horrific, and a reminder of the evil that motivates Hamas;
Whereas Israel has the right to defend itself and its people;
Whereas violent, anti-American and anti-Israel protests have erupted on campuses of institutions of higher education nationwide in response to Israel’s defense of itself and its people;
Whereas, since April 18, 2024, more than 1,500 individuals have been arrested on campuses of institutions of higher education for engaging in violent, anti-Israel and anti-American protests;
Whereas some reporting has identified
many American flags torn, burned, and desecrated
at these violent protests;
Whereas thousands of patriotic law enforcement officials have spent countless hours protecting the people of the United States from the violence at these protests;
Whereas violent, anti-American and anti-Israel protestors replaced the American flag at City College of New York with the Palestinian flag;
Whereas patriotic New York Police Department officials removed the Palestinian flag and replaced it with an American flag;
Whereas the American flag was taken down by violent anti-American and anti-Israel protestors at the University of North Carolina and replaced with a Palestinian flag, which was then taken down by patriotic law enforcement officials and interim Chancellor Lee Roberts, who restored the American flag to its rightful position;
Whereas a group of violent anti-American and anti-Israel protestors thereafter attempted to take down the American flag again;
Whereas a group of patriotic fraternity brothers at the University of North Carolina protected the American flag from being desecrated and replaced with a Palestinian flag by violent, anti-American and anti-Israel individuals;
Whereas the people of the United States celebrate these patriotic fraternity brothers at the University of North Carolina and have sought to recognize and reward their heroic actions against the violent, anti-American and anti-Israel individuals; and
Whereas fraternities can serve as institutions that promote patriotism, brotherhood, and overall support for the common good: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
condemns the violent, anti-American and anti-Israel protests that are occurring on campuses of institutions of higher education nationwide; and
(2)
expresses its thanks for the patriotic actions of law enforcement in New York City and in Chapel Hill, the University of North Carolina interim Chancellor Lee Roberts, and fraternity brothers at the University of North Carolina.
