118 SRES 17 ATS: Supporting the contributions of Catholic schools in the United States.
U.S. Senate
2023-01-26
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 17
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 26, 2023
Mr. Rubio
(for himself and
Mr. Casey
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Supporting the contributions of Catholic schools in the United States.
Whereas Catholic schools in the United States are internationally acclaimed for their academic excellence and provide approximately 1,700,000 students with more than an exceptional scholastic education;
Whereas Catholic schools instill a broad, values-added education emphasizing the lifelong development of moral, intellectual, physical, and social values in young people in the United States;
Whereas Catholic schools serve the United States by providing a diverse student population from all regions of the United States and all socioeconomic backgrounds with a strong academic and moral foundation, including 21.5 percent of students from racial minority backgrounds, 18.6 percent from Hispanic heritage, and 20.3 percent from non-Catholic families;
Whereas Catholic schools are an affordable option for parents, particularly in underserved urban areas;
Whereas Catholic schools produce students strongly dedicated to their faith, values, families, and communities by providing an intellectually stimulating environment rich in spiritual, character, and moral development;
Whereas Catholic schools are committed to community service, producing graduates who hold
helping others
among their core values;
Whereas the total Catholic school student enrollment for the 2022–2023 academic year is 1,700,000, and the student-teacher ratio is 11 to 1;
Whereas the Catholic high school graduation rate is 98.9 percent, with 85.2 percent of graduates attending 4-year colleges;
Whereas the week of January 29, 2023, to February 4, 2023, has been designated as
National Catholic Schools Week
by the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops;
Whereas National Catholic Schools Week was first established in 1974 and has been celebrated annually for the past 49 years; and
Whereas the theme for National Catholic Schools Week 2023 is
Catholic Schools: Faith. Excellence. Service.
which reflects the purpose of Catholic schools to form students to be good citizens of the world, love God and neighbor, and enrich society with the leaven of the gospel and by example of faith: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the goals of National Catholic Schools Week, an event—
(A)
cosponsored by the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops; and
(B)
established to recognize the vital contributions of the thousands of Catholic elementary and secondary schools in the United States;
(2)
applauds the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops on their selection of a theme that all can celebrate; and
(3)
supports—
(A)
the dedication of Catholic schools, students, parents, and teachers across the United States toward academic excellence; and
(B)
the key role they play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the United States.
