118 SRES 791 ATS: Designating August 1, 2024, as “Gold Star Children’s Day”.
U.S. Senate
2024-07-31
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 791
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 31, 2024
Mr. Wicker
(for himself and
Mr. Manchin
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Designating August 1, 2024, as
Gold Star Children’s Day
.
Whereas the recognition of Gold Star Families in the United States dates back to World War I, when the families of fallen members of the Armed Forces displayed a service flag with a gold star in the window of their homes;
Whereas, in 1936, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed into law legislation declaring Gold Star Mother’s Day, now known as
Gold Star Mother's and Family's Day
, a national observance honoring the mothers of fallen members of the Armed Forces annually on the last Sunday of September;
Whereas, since 2010, the Senate has honored Gold Star Spouses by resolution annually on April 5, recognizing the unique sacrifices made by spouses of fallen members of the Armed Forces;
Whereas many thousands of children of military families have lost parents who served in the Armed Forces and also deserve national recognition for the burden and legacy they carry; and
Whereas no date has existed to specifically recognize the children of fallen members of the Armed Forces as part of a national debt of gratitude that the people of the United States owe to the members of the Armed Forces who sacrificed all in protecting the freedom of the United States and the people of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates August 1, 2024, as
Gold Star Children’s Day
;
(2)
honors the sacrifices and hardships of the children of fallen members of the Armed Forces; and
(3)
encourages the people of the United States to observe Gold Star Children’s Day in support of children of the fallen members of the Armed Forces of the United States.
