118 SRES 18 IS: Amending the Standing Rules of the Senate to prohibit the consideration of legislation in the Senate unless the text of the legislation that will be considered has been made publicly available in electronic form for a mandatory minimum review period.
U.S. Senate
2023-01-26
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 18
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 26, 2023
Mr. Scott of Florida
(for himself,
Mr. Marshall
,
Mr. Hawley
, and
Ms. Ernst
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules and Administration
RESOLUTION
Amending the Standing Rules of the Senate to prohibit the consideration of legislation in the Senate unless the text of the legislation that will be considered has been made publicly available in electronic form for a mandatory minimum review period.
1.
Prohibiting consideration of text of legislation until completion of mandatory minimum review period
(a)
In general
Rule XII of the Standing Rules of the Senate is amended by adding at the end the following:
(5)
(a)
It shall not be in order to consider a bill, joint resolution, resolution, or conference report unless the text of the bill, joint resolution, resolution, or conference report to be considered has been publicly available in electronic form for the mandatory minimum review period.
(b)
Each Senator shall self certify that the Senator has read a bill, joint resolution, resolution, or conference report before voting on the bill, joint resolution, resolution, or conference report.
(c)
In this paragraph, the term
mandatory minimum review period
means, with respect to a bill, joint resolution, resolution, or conference report, the greater of—
(i)
the period—
(I)
beginning on the first hour after the text of the bill, joint resolution, resolution, or conference report to be considered is first made publicly available in electronic form; and
(II)
that consists of a number of minutes equal to 2 times the number of pages of the text of the bill, joint resolution, resolution, or conference report to be considered; and
(ii)
72 hours after the text of the bill, joint resolution, resolution, or conference report to be considered is first made publicly available in electronic form.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendments
The Standing Rules of the Senate is amended—
(1)
in paragraph 1 of rule VIII, by inserting
the text of which has been available for the mandatory minimum review period, as defined in paragraph 5 of rule XII, and
after
bills and resolutions
;
(2)
in rule XIV—
(A)
in paragraph 3, by striking
on that day
and inserting
before the expiration of the mandatory minimum review period, as defined in paragraph 5 of rule XII,
; and
(B)
in paragraph 6, by striking
one day
and inserting
for the mandatory minimum review period, as defined in paragraph 5 of rule XII,
;
(3)
in paragraph 5 of rule XVII, by striking
two calendar days (excluding Sundays and legal holidays
and inserting
the mandatory minimum review period, as defined in paragraph 5 of rule XII,
; and
(4)
in paragraph 5 of rule XXVIII, by striking
shall be immediately put
and inserting
shall be put after the expiration of the mandatory minimum review period, as defined in paragraph 5 of rule XII
.
2.
CBO cost estimate
(a)
Point of order
It shall not be in order in the Senate to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the Houses, or conference report unless a cost estimate under section 402(1) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (
2 U.S.C. 653(1)
) for the exact text of the bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the Houses, or conference report has been available for not fewer than 24 hours.
(b)
Waiver and appeal
Subsection (a) may be waived or suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under subsection (a).
