118 SRES 806 ATS: Recognizing May 22, 2024, as the 205th anniversary of the founding of Memphis, Tennessee, and acknowledging the role that Memphis has played in shaping the history, culture, and economy of the United States.
U.S. Senate
2024-09-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 806
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 10, 2024
Mrs. Blackburn
(for herself and
Mr. Hagerty
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Recognizing May 22, 2024, as the 205th anniversary of the founding of Memphis, Tennessee, and acknowledging the role that Memphis has played in shaping the history, culture, and economy of the United States.
Whereas, on May 22, 1819, the city of Memphis, Tennessee, was founded by John Overton, James Winchester, and Andrew Jackson atop the bluffs of the Mississippi River;
Whereas due to its central geographic location, Memphis has served as one of the transportation and logistics hubs of the United States, connecting much of the United States by rail and by water;
Whereas, since 1973, Memphis has served as the hub of the largest cargo airline in the world, Federal Express;
Whereas crucial events of the Civil Rights Movement and the fight for equal justice for all occurred in Memphis, including the 1968 strike by sanitation workers;
Whereas the strike by sanitation workers prompted Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to travel to Memphis in April of 1968, where he delivered his famous
I’ve Been to the Mountaintop
speech, just 1 day before his tragic assassination at the Lorraine Motel;
Whereas, since 1962, Memphis has been home to St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, which has provided treatment to children with cancer or other life-threatening diseases at no cost to families;
Whereas Memphis has been called
Home of the Blues
, with W.C. Handy—known as the
Father of the Blues
—and his band playing in clubs throughout the historic Beale Street in downtown Memphis;
Whereas Sun Studio, opened in Memphis in 1950, is a monument in rock and roll history, where icons like Johnny Cash, Elvis Presley, and Jerry Lee Lewis recorded some of their biggest hits;
Whereas Graceland, the estate of Elvis Presley, is a music landmark, attracting hundreds of thousands of visitors every year; and
Whereas the city of Memphis, in its more than 205-year history, has played a pivotal role in shaping the history, culture, and economy of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes the 205th anniversary of the founding of Memphis, Tennessee, as May 22, 2024; and
(2)
acknowledges the pivotal role that the city of Memphis has played in shaping the history, culture, and economy of the United States.
