118 SRES 768 ATS: Congratulating the Fighting Irish of the University of Notre Dame men’s lacrosse team for winning the 2024 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Men's Lacrosse National Championship.
U.S. Senate
2024-07-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 768
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 24, 2024
Mr. Braun
(for himself and
Mr. Young
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the Fighting Irish of the University of Notre Dame men’s lacrosse team for winning the 2024 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Men's Lacrosse National Championship.
Whereas, on May 27, 2024, the University of Notre Dame Men’s Lacrosse Team (referred to in this preamble as the
Fighting Irish
) won the 2024 National Collegiate Athletic Association (referred to in this preamble as the
NCAA
) Division I title with a 15 to 5 win over the Maryland Terrapins in Philadelphia;
Whereas the victory marked the second national title and a consecutive national championship for the Fighting Irish;
Whereas the Fighting Irish is the first team since 2019 and 2021 to win back-to-back men’s lacrosse NCAA national championships in consecutive seasons, and the eighth team in NCAA Division I history to accomplish the feat;
Whereas head coach Kevin Corrigan was supported by assistant coaches and staff, including Ryan Wellner, Chris Wojcik, Ryder Garnsey, Rob Simpson, Joshua Skube, Mandy Merritt, Robby Hamman, Zach Korten, Darin Ottaviani, and Ron Powlus;
Whereas the full player roster of the 2024 national championship Fighting Irish team includes Christian Alacqua, Will Angrick, Sam Assaf, Fulton Bayman, Brock Behrman, Jake Bonomi, Tyler Buchner, Ross Burgmaster, Gavin Burlace, BJ Burlace, Max Busenkell, Chris Conlin, Jack Conroy, Declan Cooke, Anderson Davis, Conrad Delgado, Eric Dobson, Ronan Doherty, Will Donovan, Andrew Donovan, Casey Doyle, Pat Eilers, Liam Entenmann, Jordan Faison, Fisher Finley, Will Gallagher, Christian Gallaher, Griffin Grant, Reilly Gray, Andrew Greenspan, Logan Gutzwiller, Colin Hagstrom, Nick Harris, Ridge Johnson, Pat Kavanagh, Chris Kavanagh, Mick Lee, Shawn Lyght, Will Lynch, Michael Lynch, Will Maheras, Maxim Manyak, Devon McLane, Marco Napolitano, Danny Parker, Carter Parlette, Thomas Porell, Ben Ramsey, Thomas Ricciardelli, Jeffery Ricciardelli, Michael Ridgway, Nate Schwitzenberg, Jalen Seymour, Ryan Sforzo, Jake Sommer, Jake Taylor, Bryce Walker, Karter Williams, Mason Wordelman, and Alex Zepf;
Whereas Chris Kavanagh was named the Most Outstanding Player of the 2024 NCAA Championships;
Whereas Pat Kavanagh became the first men's lacrosse player in the history of the Fighting Irish to win the Tewaaraton Award, the most coveted individual honor in college lacrosse; and
Whereas Chris Kavanagh, Pat Kavanagh, Liam Entenmann, Shawn Lyght, Devon McLane and Ben Ramsey were named to the 2024 NCAA All-Tournament Team: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
congratulates the University of Notre Dame men’s lacrosse team for its victory in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (referred to in this resolution as the
NCAA
) tournament, claiming the 2024 NCAA Division I title; and
(2)
respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
former president of the University of Notre Dame, Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C.;
(B)
the head coach of the University of Notre Dame men’s lacrosse team, Kevin Corrigan; and
(C)
the vice president and James E. Rohr director of athletics at Notre Dame University, Pete Bevacqua.
