118 SRES 267 IS: Supporting the designation of the week of June 18 through June 24, 2023, as “National Women’s Sports Week” to celebrate the anniversary of the enactment of title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and the growth of women’s sports.
U.S. Senate
2023-06-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 267
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 22, 2023
Ms. Ernst
(for herself,
Mr. Wicker
,
Mrs. Hyde-Smith
,
Mr. Graham
,
Mr. Lankford
,
Mr. Scott of Florida
,
Mrs. Blackburn
,
Mr. Cramer
,
Mr. Rubio
,
Mrs. Britt
,
Mr. Braun
, and
Mr. Cruz
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of the week of June 18 through June 24, 2023, as
National Women’s Sports Week
to celebrate the anniversary of the enactment of title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and the growth of women’s sports.
Whereas title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (
20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.
) (referred to in this preamble as
title IX
) was enacted on June 23, 1972, to end unjust sex discrimination in education, including in athletics;
Whereas title IX transformed sports by guaranteeing women and girls the right to equal athletic opportunities;
Whereas the purposes and benefits of title IX are negated for women whenever men claiming to be women are granted access to female sports;
Whereas title IX has resulted in a 545-percent increase in the percentage of women playing college sports and a 990-percent increase in the percentage of women playing high school sports;
Whereas athletic participation helps women and girls develop confidence, initiative, and leadership skills;
Whereas policies allowing for the inclusion of men in women’s sports have no basis in biological fact or valid medical research;
Whereas providing equal athletic opportunities in sports to women is impossible without single-sex teams and competitions reserved exclusively for female athletes;
Whereas, without separate single-sex teams and competitions based on biological sex for men and women, men will dominate competitive sports where size, strength, and speed are factors, depriving female athletes of athletic and academic opportunities;
Whereas the biological differences between men and women have led to women being injured by men competing in women’s sports;
Whereas, since 2017, men have won at least 24 professional women’s sports titles and an innumerable number of unreported titles at the middle school, high school, and collegiate levels; and
Whereas, in 2018, at least 300 high school-aged boys in the United States ran the 400-meter dash faster than the most decorated female Olympic champion in the world has run it in her lifetime: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate supports—
(1)
observing
National Women’s Sports Week
as the week of June 18 through June 24, 2023, to recognize—
(A)
the incredible expansion of opportunities for female athletes since the enactment of title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (
20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.
); and
(B)
the role of the provisions of law described in subparagraph (A) in guaranteeing equal athletic opportunities for members of both sexes; and
(2)
marking the observance of National Women’s Sports Week with—
(A)
appropriate programs and activities that—
(i)
celebrate the contributions of individual female athletes in the United States;
(ii)
honor the coaches and parents who support female athletes in the United States;
(iii)
promote equal access to athletic opportunities for members of both sexes; and
(iv)
support the commitment of the United States to supporting female athletes; and
(B)
legislative efforts to protect single-sex sports.
