118 SRES 242 IS: Commending the Tennessee Valley Authority on the 90th anniversary of the signing of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933.
U.S. Senate
2023-06-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 242
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 7, 2023
Mrs. Blackburn
(for herself,
Mr. Wicker
,
Mr. Hagerty
,
Mr. Tillis
,
Mrs. Hyde-Smith
, and
Mr. Warnock
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Environment and Public Works
RESOLUTION
Commending the Tennessee Valley Authority on the 90th anniversary of the signing of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933.
Whereas the Tennessee Valley Authority (referred to in this preamble as the
TVA
) was created by Congress in 1933 to improve navigation along the Tennessee River, reduce the risk of floods and flood damage, provide low-cost electricity, and promote environmental stewardship and economic development in the region;
Whereas the long-standing mission of the TVA, born during the Great Depression, is to improve the quality of life across a 7-State region, including Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, Mississippi, Kentucky, North Carolina, and Virginia;
Whereas the integrated management of the Tennessee River system by the TVA provides a wide range of benefits that include reliable, affordable, and resilient electrical power, flood control, improving water quality and supply, enhancing recreation, and protecting public land;
Whereas the TVA has improved navigation of the Tennessee River system and facilitated river freight transportation;
Whereas the TVA has reduced the risk of flood damage through the construction of locks, dams, and reservoirs throughout the Tennessee Valley;
Whereas the TVA provides reliable, affordable, resilient, and clean electricity and has stimulated economic growth;
Whereas the TVA continues to promote economic development by helping companies and communities attract investments that bring good jobs to the Tennessee Valley; and
Whereas the TVA continues to pursue new ideas and innovate through the service of a committed and skilled workforce: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
commends the Tennessee Valley Authority on the 90th anniversary of the signing of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933 (
16 U.S.C. 831 et seq.
);
(2)
honors the accomplishments of the Tennessee Valley Authority in improving the quality of life for the citizens throughout the Valley by improving navigation, controlling floods, promoting environmental stewardship, and providing reliable, affordable, resilient, and clean electricity throughout the Tennessee Valley;
(3)
recognizes the Tennessee Valley Authority, and all its employees and retirees, for its long and proud history of service in the areas of energy, the environment, and economic development throughout Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, Mississippi, Kentucky, North Carolina, and Virginia; and
(4)
respectfully requests the Secretary of the Senate to transmit a copy of this resolution for appropriate display to—
(A)
the Chairman of the Board of the Tennessee Valley Authority, William Kilbride; and
(B)
the Chief Executive Officer of the Tennessee Valley Authority, Jeffrey Lyash.
