118 SRES 720 ATS: Congratulating Trine University men’s basketball team for winning the 2024 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III Men’s Basketball National Championship.
U.S. Senate
2024-06-04
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 720
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 4, 2024
Mr. Young
(for
Mr. Braun
(for himself and
Mr. Young
)) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Congratulating Trine University men’s basketball team for winning the 2024 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III Men’s Basketball National Championship.
Whereas, on March 16, 2024, the Trine University men’s basketball team (referred to in this resolution as the
Thunder
) won the 2024 National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division III National Championship at the Allen County War Memorial Coliseum in Fort Wayne, Indiana;
Whereas, in its first-ever NCAA tournament appearance, Trine University was selected as an at-large team and subsequently hosted the first and second weekends of the tournament, culminating in its championship win;
Whereas Head Coach Brooks Miller has excelled during his 13 seasons with Trine University, having—
(1)
been named the 2023–2024 Coach of the Year by the National Association of Basketball Coaches;
(2)
a coaching record of 226 wins to 116 losses;
(3)
led the program to its first-ever NCAA tournament appearance; and
(4)
led the program to its first-ever NCAA Division III National Championship after a season record of 29 wins to 4 losses;
Whereas Head Coach Brooks Miller has been supported by assistant coaches and staff;
Whereas senior guard Cortez Garland gave an outstanding performance and was selected as the Most Outstanding Player, having led the team with 22 points in the championship game, scoring 17 points in the second half;
Whereas, in the championship game, sophomore Nate Tucker scored 13 points, junior Aidan Smylie scored 12 points, junior Drew Moore scored 10 points, and senior Emmanuel Megnanglo pulled down a team-high of 8 rebounds, and the trio of Garland, Tucker, and Smylie were named to the All-Tournament Team; and
Whereas the contributions of the players, coaches, support staff, and the entire Trine University community were instrumental in achieving this historic victory and provide inspiration for future generations of young athletes: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
congratulates the Trine University men’s basketball team for its victory in the 2024 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III National Championship; and
(2)
recognizes the dedication, perseverance, and hard work of the players, coaches, students, alumni, administration, and support staff that directly contributed to Trine University’s triumph.
