118 SRES 100 ATS: To honor the life and death of James Thomas Broyhill, former Senator for the State of North Carolina.
U.S. Senate
2023-03-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 100
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 8, 2023
Mr. Budd
(for himself and
Mr. Tillis
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
To honor the life and death of James Thomas Broyhill, former Senator for the State of North Carolina.
Whereas James T. Broyhill was born in Lenoir, North Carolina, on August 19, 1927, and attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;
Whereas James T. Broyhill served as a prominent civic leader in Lenoir, North Carolina, and served in several roles at the furniture company of his father;
Whereas James T. Broyhill served in the House of Representatives from 1963 to 1986, establishing a reputation for impeccable constituent services;
Whereas, during his distinguished career in the House of Representatives, James T. Broyhill was the leading force behind the creation of the Consumer Product Safety Commission;
Whereas legislation introduced by James T. Broyhill designating the Overmountain Victory National Historic Trail was enacted in September 1980;
Whereas, on June 29, 1986, James T. Broyhill was appointed by the Governor of North Carolina, Jim Martin, to the Senate, where he served until November 4, 1986;
Whereas, after his service in the Senate, James T. Broyhill served as chairman of the North Carolina Economic Development Commission, and then as the Secretary of Commerce of North Carolina before retiring from political life in 1991; and
Whereas the community work of James T. Broyhill included serving as chairman and member of the Appalachian State University Board of Trustees, a member of the Board of Visitors of the Bowman Gray/Baptist Hospital Medical Center, a member of the Board of Visitors of the Babcock Graduate School of Management at Wake Forest University, and a member of the Board of Directors of the North Carolina Food Bank: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
the Senate—
(A)
has heard with profound sorrow and deep regret the announcement of the death of James T. Broyhill, former Member of the Senate;
(B)
respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate communicate these resolutions to the House of Representatives and transmit an enrolled copy thereof to the family of James T. Broyhill; and
(2)
when the Senate adjourns today, it stands adjourned as a further mark of respect to the memory of the late James T. Broyhill.
