118 SRES 139 IS: Recognizing the critical role that PEPFAR has played in the global fight against HIV/AIDS.
U.S. Senate
2023-03-30
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 139
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 30, 2023
Mr. Graham
(for himself,
Mr. Boozman
,
Mr. Coons
, and
Mr. Van Hollen
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the critical role that PEPFAR has played in the global fight against HIV/AIDS.
Whereas the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (referred to in this preamble as
PEPFAR
), launched 20 years ago by President George W. Bush and supported by every President and Congress since, has proven to be one of the most successful health programs in modern history;
Whereas private organizations, including the ONE Campaign and the Elton John AIDS Foundation, like many others, have been indispensable partners in supporting PEPFAR and advancing its causes;
Whereas PEPFAR has been a critical tool in the global fight against HIV/AIDS, providing vital resources and support to countries most affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic and saving more than 25,000,000 lives;
Whereas PEPFAR has supported HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and care programs in more than 50 countries and currently provides life-saving antiretroviral treatment to 20,100,000 individuals;
Whereas, since 2010, PEPFAR has achieved a 50 percent reduction in new HIV cases in young women between 15 and 24 years of age and a 65 percent reduction in new HIV cases in young men between 15 and 24 years of age;
Whereas PEPFAR has contributed to progress in reducing mother-to-child transmission of HIV, with more than 5,500,000 babies born HIV-free to mothers who have HIV and who received antiretroviral medication through PEPFAR-supported programs;
Whereas, as of September 30, 2022, 1,500,000 individuals are receiving antiretroviral pre-exposure prophylaxis (referred to in this clause as
PrEP
) to prevent HIV infection, and access to PrEP programs must be expanded;
Whereas PEPFAR has supported the expansion of HIV/AIDS services for children, adolescents, and young people, including for the more than 1,500,000 children receiving HIV treatment through PEPFAR-supported programs;
Whereas PEPFAR has dramatically reduced the stigma and discrimination associated with HIV/AIDS;
Whereas PEPFAR prioritizes reaching adolescent girls and young women, who are disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa, through the Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-free, Mentored, and Safe program (commonly known as
DREAMS
), which has assisted more than 1,600,000 adolescent girls and young women with HIV prevention services;
Whereas PEPFAR has been a key partner in the global COVID–19 response, supporting the delivery of essential HIV/AIDS services and strengthening health systems to ensure continuity of care, including by delivering more than 60,000,000 doses of the COVID–19 vaccine in sub-Saharan Africa; and
Whereas challenges in combating HIV/AIDS, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, remain and will not be overcome without continued PEPFAR support: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes the critical role that the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (referred to in this resolution as
PEPFAR
) has played in the global fight against HIV/AIDS;
(2)
applauds the successes and accomplishments of PEPFAR to date; and
(3)
urges continued funding and support for PEPFAR to help achieve the goal of ending HIV/AIDS as a public health threat by 2030.
