118 SRES 437 ATS: Condemning antisemitism at institutions of higher education in the United States and encouraging college and university leaders, administrators, and faculty to speak out against antisemitism.
U.S. Senate
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 437
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 26, 2023
Mrs. Blackburn
(for herself,
Ms. Rosen
,
Mr. Lankford
, and
Mr. Van Hollen
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Condemning antisemitism at institutions of higher education in the United States and encouraging college and university leaders, administrators, and faculty to speak out against antisemitism.
Whereas, in the aftermath of the terrorist attack on Israel by Hamas on October 7, 2023, there has been a rise in incidents of antisemitism, including hate speech and intimidation, on college campuses and universities in the United States, creating an atmosphere of fear for Jewish students and faculty;
Whereas the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance has developed a widely accepted working definition of antisemitism which can serve as a helpful tool for education administrators and faculty to identify antisemitism;
Whereas acts of hate, discrimination, and violence based on religion or ethnicity have no place at institutions that exist to further education and understanding between diverse student bodies; and
Whereas freedom of speech and expression are foundational principles of institutions of higher education in the United States, but when these principles are used to promote violence, hatred, or discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs, national origin, or ancestry, higher education leaders have the right and an obligation to respond: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
strongly condemns any instances of antisemitism occurring at colleges and universities in the United States;
(2)
encourages higher education leaders, including presidents, deans, and administrators, to publicly condemn speech that incites or celebrates violence against any people based on religious beliefs, national origin, or ancestry; and
(3)
encourages institutions of higher education to engage with Jewish student organizations and ensure that Jewish students, faculty, and staff can pursue their academic and personal aspirations without fear.
