118 SRES 804 IS: Recognizing Edmundo González Urrutia as the President-elect of Venezuela.
U.S. Senate
2024-08-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 804
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
August 1, 2024
Mr. Rubio
(for himself,
Mr. Durbin
,
Mr. Scott of Florida
,
Mr. Kaine
,
Mr. Cassidy
, and
Mr. Bennet
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Recognizing Edmundo González Urrutia as the President-elect of Venezuela.
Whereas, on July 28, 2024, Venezuela held Presidential elections, the first in the country since the widely discredited Presidential election in 2018;
Whereas the elections were neither free nor fair, and the process lacked respect for fundamental freedoms, with the Carter Center stating,
Venezuela’s 2024 presidential election did not meet international standards of electoral integrity and cannot be considered democratic.
;
Whereas President Joe Biden has publicly stated the need for an immediate release of full, transparent, and detailed voting data by Venezuelan authorities;
Whereas the data released by the vast majority of polling centers showed that the leader of the opposition, Edmundo González Urrutia, won with an overwhelming number of votes;
Whereas the Venezuelan people have demonstrated their desire to live in peace and political freedom, represented by a democratically elected President of their choosing;
Whereas many international organizations and heads of state have voiced concern with the lack of transparency throughout the electoral process; and
Whereas numerous countries have either called for transparency in the tally of election results or have rejected the results outright based on clear evidence of fraud, including Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Germany, Guatemala, Italy, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Spain, and Uruguay: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes the victory of Edmundo González Urrutia in the Presidential election in Venezuela held on July 28, 2024;
(2)
notes that such recognition is widely shared around the world;
(3)
asserts that the victory of Edmundo González marks the return of a democratically elected leader at the national level in Venezuela; and
(4)
stands in solidarity with the Venezuelan people in their democratic aspirations to live freely without repression.
