118 SRES 694 IS: Expressing support for the designation of May 2024 as “Renewable Fuels Month” to recognize the important role that renewable fuels play in reducing carbon impacts, lowering fuel prices for consumers, supporting rural communities, and lessening reliance on foreign adversaries.
U.S. Senate
2024-05-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 694
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
May 16, 2024
Mr. Ricketts
(for himself,
Mr. Brown
,
Ms. Duckworth
,
Mr. Marshall
,
Mr. Thune
,
Ms. Ernst
,
Ms. Klobuchar
,
Mr. Moran
,
Ms. Smith
,
Mr. Grassley
,
Mrs. Fischer
, and
Mr. Rounds
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of May 2024 as
Renewable Fuels Month
to recognize the important role that renewable fuels play in reducing carbon impacts, lowering fuel prices for consumers, supporting rural communities, and lessening reliance on foreign adversaries.
Whereas the United States is the largest producer of biofuels in the world, which contributes to the domestic economy, creates jobs, and reduces greenhouse gas emissions;
Whereas ethanol is a renewable fuel made of biomass from plant materials;
Whereas, in 2023, more than 72,463 jobs in the United States were directly associated with the ethanol industry, with an additional 322,000 indirect and induced jobs supported across all sectors of the economy;
Whereas the ethanol industry created $32,500,000,000 in household income and contributed more than $54,200,000,000 to the gross domestic product of the United States;
Whereas ethanol and feed co-product production provide a valuable market for United States corn, as a typical dry mill ethanol plant adds nearly $2 of additional value to every bushel of corn processed;
Whereas ethanol use reduces greenhouse gas emissions by between 44 and 52 percent compared to gasoline, and, by displacing hydrocarbon substances like aromatics in gasoline, ethanol also helps reduce emissions of air toxins, particulate matter, carbon monoxide, nitrous oxides, and exhaust hydrocarbons;
Whereas, in 2023, ethanol played a vital role in bolstering the energy independence of the United States by supplementing nearly 525,000,000 barrels of crude oil;
Whereas
1⁄3
of every bushel processed by an ethanol plant is used to make distillers grains, one of the most efficient animal feeds available;
Whereas biodiesel is a drop-in replacement for petroleum-based diesel fuel that is produced from renewable resources such as recycled cooking oil, soybean oil, distillers corn oil, canola oil, and animal fats;
Whereas renewable diesel is an advanced biofuel, made from the same feedstocks as biodiesel, that reduces greenhouse gas emissions, while meeting the same standard specification for diesel fuels as petroleum-based diesel;
Whereas producing a total of 6,000,000,000 gallons of biodiesel and renewable diesel would support 187,000 full-time equivalent jobs, with more than $8,800,000,000 in wages and $61,600,000,000 in total economic impact;
Whereas biodiesel and renewable diesel can be used in existing diesel engines without modification and are available throughout the United States;
Whereas advanced biofuels like biodiesel and renewable diesel reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50 percent compared to petroleum-based diesel;
Whereas biodiesel emits up to 80 percent less particulate matter than petroleum-based diesel, improving air quality and health outcomes;
Whereas the production of biodiesel and renewable diesel adds to the total domestic fuel supply, reducing the price of all diesel fuel at the pump;
Whereas, without the renewable fuel standard helping to drive production of biodiesel and renewable diesel, the value of soybeans grown by farmers in the United States would decrease by 8 percent;
Whereas sustainable aviation fuel is made from renewable biomass and waste resources and can deliver the performance of petroleum-based jet fuel; and
Whereas sustainable aviation fuel can be blended with conventional jet fuel and the use of sustainable or blended aviation fuel requires no infrastructure or equipment changes: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the designation of May 2024 as
Renewable Fuels Month
; and
(2)
recognizes—
(A)
the important role renewable fuels play in reducing the carbon impact of the United States;
(B)
the ability of renewable fuels to lower fuel prices for consumers;
(C)
the support to rural communities that renewable fuel industries provide; and
(D)
the opportunity that the production of renewable fuels provides to lessen the reliance of the United States on foreign adversaries.
