118 SRES 721 ATS: Congratulating the Grace College Lancers women’s basketball team for winning the 2024 National Christian College Athletic Association Division I National Championship.
U.S. Senate
2024-06-04
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 721
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 4, 2024
Mr. Young
(for
Mr. Braun
(for himself and
Mr. Young
)) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the Grace College Lancers women’s basketball team for winning the 2024 National Christian College Athletic Association Division I National Championship.
Whereas, on March 23, 2024, the Grace College Lancers women’s basketball team (referred to in this preamble as the
Lancers
) won the 2024 National Christian College Athletic Association (referred to in this preamble as
NCCAA
) Division I National Championship in Winona Lake, Indiana;
Whereas, junior Peyton Murphy was named to the all-tournament team for her performance in the 2024 NCCAA Division I tournament;
Whereas senior Maddie Ryman was named the tournament Most Outstanding Player;
Whereas head coach Dan Davis has excelled during his 6 seasons with the Lancers;
Whereas head coach Dan Davis has been aided by assistant coaches and staff;
Whereas the Lancers are supported by members of the Grace College Athletics Department;
Whereas the 2024 National Championship victory marked the first national title for the Lancers;
Whereas the Lancers emerged from the semi-finals with a dramatic and close victory over the Oakland City University Mighty Oaks;
Whereas the 2024 National Championship victory was the final game of the 15-year span of the role of Grace College as host of the NCCAA Division I National Championship; and
Whereas the tradition of the Lancers of excelling in both athletics and academics continues to advance the sport of women’s basketball and provide inspiration for future generations of young athletes: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
congratulates the Grace College Lancers women’s basketball team for its victory in the National Christian College Athletic Association Division I National Championship; and
(2)
recognizes the dedication, perseverance, and hard work of the players and coaches of the Grace College Lancers women’s basketball team, and students, alumni, administration, and support staff that directly contributed to the victory of Grace College in the National Christian College Athletic Association 2024 Division I National Championship.
