118 SRES 204 ATS: Congratulating the University of Oklahoma women’s gymnastics team for winning the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association championship, the program’s sixth title overall.
U.S. Senate
2023-05-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 204
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
May 9, 2023
Mr. Lankford
(for himself and
Mr. Mullin
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the University of Oklahoma women’s gymnastics team for winning the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association championship, the program’s sixth title overall.
Whereas the University of Oklahoma women’s gymnastics team (referred to in this preamble as the
Sooners
) won the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association (referred to in this preamble as
NCAA
) championship, defeating second seed University of Florida, fifth seed University of Utah, and sixth seed Louisiana State University;
Whereas, as of the 2023 NCAA championship, the Sooners—
(1)
have won 6 NCAA championships;
(2)
won its second consecutive NCAA championship;
(3)
won its third NCAA championship in 4 years;
(4)
won its sixth NCAA championship in 9 years; and
(5)
are tied for the fourth-most national championships in NCAA women's gymnastics history;
Whereas, at the 2023 NCAA championship, the Sooners, with a score of 198.3875, tied the record for highest score ever achieved at an NCAA women's gymnastics championship, which the Sooners set in 2017;
Whereas the Sooners’ score of 49.5625 in the vault at the 2023 NCAA championship is the fourth best score for vault at the NCAA championship in Sooners history;
Whereas, during the 2023 NCAA championship, the Sooners jumped out to a narrow lead over the University of Florida in the first rotation and went wire-to-wire;
Whereas all 6 gymnasts on the Sooners scored a 9.900 or higher on the floor exercise in the fourth rotation to secure the 2023 NCAA championship.
Whereas 8 gymnasts on the Sooners earned a total of 10 NCAA All-America honors, and 5 earned first-team honors;
Whereas the Sooners finished at number 1 in the NCAA women’s gymnastics final rankings;
Whereas Olivia Trautman won the NCAA vault title, becoming the seventh University of Oklahoma athlete, and the first athlete since Anastasia Webb in 2021, to win an individual NCAA championship;
Whereas Meilin Sullivan was named the NCAA Elite 90 Award Winner, becoming the fifth University of Oklahoma athlete and second member of the Sooners to receive the award;
Whereas the Sooners head coach, K.J. Kindler, led the team to a 28 win, 2 loss season that included—
(1)
a Big 12 Conference championship;
(2)
a NCAA regional crown; and
(3)
an NCAA championship; and
Whereas the 2023 NCAA championship season is the sixth triple crown for the Sooners and Coach Kindler: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
congratulates the University of Oklahoma women’s gymnastics team for winning the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association championship;
(2)
recognizes the supreme standard set by—
(A)
head coach K.J. Kindler;
(B)
the University of Oklahoma staff; and
(C)
the gymnasts on the University of Oklahoma women's gymnastics team; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the president of the University of Oklahoma, Joseph Harroz, Jr.;
(B)
the athletics director of the University of Oklahoma, Joe Castiglione; and
(C)
the head coach of the University of Oklahoma women’s gymnastics team, K.J. Kindler.
