114 HCON 74 EH: Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for an event to commemorate the 20th Anniversary of the Million Man March.
U.S. House of Representatives
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
114th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 74
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for an event to commemorate the 20th Anniversary of the Million Man March.
1.
Use of Capitol Grounds for event to commemorate 20th Anniversary of Million Man March
(a)
In general
Million Man March, Inc. 2015 (in this resolution referred to as the
sponsor
) shall be
permitted to sponsor a public event on the Capitol Grounds to commemorate the 20th Anniversary of the Million Man March (in this resolution referred to as the
event
).
(b)
Date of event
The event shall be held on October 10, 2015, or on such other date as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate jointly designate.
2.
Terms and conditions
(a)
In general
Under conditions to be prescribed by the Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, the event shall be—
(1)
free of admission charge and open to the public; and
(2)
arranged not to interfere with the needs of Congress.
(b)
Expenses and liabilities
The sponsor shall assume full responsibility for all expenses and liabilities incident to all activities associated with the event.
3.
Event preparations
Subject to the approval of the Architect of the Capitol, the sponsor is authorized to erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, sound amplification devices, and other related structures and equipment, as may be required for the event.
4.
Additional arrangements
The Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board are authorized to make any such additional arrangements that may be required to carry out the event.
5.
Enforcement of restrictions
The Capitol Police Board shall provide for enforcement of the restrictions in section 5104(c) of title 40, United States Code, concerning sales, advertisements, displays, and solicitations on the Capitol Grounds, as well as other restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds, in connection with the event.
Passed the House of Representatives September 8, 2015.
Karen L. Haas,
Clerk.
