116 HRES 440 IH: Recognizing the critical importance of military aviation training in the State of Colorado, including training conducted at the High-Altitude Army National Guard Aviation Training Site.
U.S. House of Representatives
2019-06-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
116th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 440
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 13, 2019
Mr. Tipton
(for himself,
Mr. Lamborn
, and
Mr. Buck
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the critical importance of military aviation training in the State of Colorado,
including training conducted at the High-Altitude Army National Guard
Aviation Training Site.
Whereas military aviation training in the State of Colorado is mission critical to the national security interests of the United States by ensuring the readiness of the Armed Forces; and
Whereas the High-Altitude Army National Guard Aviation Training Site is the lone school of the Department of Defense where rotary-wing aviators in the Armed Forces and the militaries of foreign allies learn how to safely fly rotary-wing aircraft in mountainous, high-altitude environments: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the critical importance of military aviation training in the State of Colorado, including training conducted at the High-Altitude Army National Aviation Training Site, to the national security interests of the United States and the readiness of the Armed Forces; and
(2)
directs the Clerk of the House of Representatives to transmit copies of this resolution to the President, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Army, the Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, the Governor of the State of Colorado, the Speaker of the Colorado House of Representatives, the President of the Colorado Senate, and the Adjutant General of Colorado.
