116 HRES 843 IH: Recognizing the 50th anniversary of the American Traffic Safety Services Association, the international organization for the roadway safety infrastructure industry, celebrating its milestones and achievements, and its efforts on saving lives and reducing injuries on United States roadways.
U.S. House of Representatives
2020-02-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
116th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 843
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 10, 2020
Mr. Wittman
(for himself,
Mr. Westerman
, and
Mr. Pappas
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the 50th anniversary of the American Traffic Safety Services Association, the
international organization for the roadway safety infrastructure industry,
celebrating its milestones and achievements, and its efforts on saving
lives and reducing injuries on United States roadways.
Whereas, in 1970, the establishment of the American Traffic Safety Services Association became an international organization;
Whereas the year 2020 marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the American Traffic Safety Services Association;
Whereas the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA–LU), which established the Highway Safety Improvement Program as a core Federal-aid program, created extensive new resources and opportunities to advance highway safety throughout the United States, resulting in significant reductions in fatalities and injuries on United States roadways;
Whereas, in 1998, the Flagger Instructor Training course was developed, which resulted in the American Traffic Safety Services Association training approximately 50,000 flaggers every year;
Whereas, in 2013, the American Traffic Safety Services Association offered its first online training course, the National Online Flagger Course, which has grown to 8 online courses; and
Whereas the American Traffic Safety Services Association advocates to advance roadway safety, infrastructure investment, and overall focus of moving
Toward Zero Deaths
and reducing fatalities and injuries on roadways throughout the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commemorates the American Traffic Safety Services Association’s 50th anniversary;
(2)
recognizes the American Traffic Safety Services Association for its work and dedication to advancing roadway safety in the United States;
(3)
recognizes the American Traffic Safety Services Association for its 50 years of strong initiatives to reduce fatalities and injuries on United States roadways; and
(4)
recognizes the members of the American Traffic Safety Services Association and all manufacturers, installers, and distributors on its semi­cen­ten­ni­al celebration.
