119 HRES 1034 IH: Relating to questions of privilege in the House of Representatives during the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress.
U.S. House of Representatives
2026-02-03
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1034
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 3, 2026
Mr. Johnson of South Dakota
(for himself,
Mr. Griffith
,
Mr. Mann
,
Mr. Baird
,
Mr. Downing
,
Mr. Hurd of Colorado
,
Mr. Harrigan
,
Mr. Schmidt
,
Mr. Rouzer
,
Mr. Guthrie
, and
Mr. Bacon
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Relating to questions of privilege in the House of Representatives during the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress.
1.
Questions of privilege in the House of Representatives
(a)
In general
During the remainder of the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress in the House of Representatives, notwithstanding clause 2(a)(1) of rule IX of the Rules of the House, with respect to a resolution described in
subsection (c)
, the Chair may not entertain—
(1)
any such resolution offered by the Majority Leader or the Minority Leader unless the resolution has accumulated one-fifth of the total membership of the House as cosponsors at the time it is offered; or
(2)
an announcement by a Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of an intention to offer any such resolution unless the resolution has maintained at least one-fifth of the total membership of the House as cosponsors for at least one legislative day after its introduction.
(b)
Oral announcement
Oral announcement of the form of a resolution referred to in
subsection (a)
shall be considered as dispensed with.
(c)
Resolution described
A resolution described in this subsection is a resolution offered from the floor of the House of Representatives as a question of the privileges of the House addressing the conduct of any Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner, but does not include a resolution described in clause 2(a)(3) of rule IX of the Rules of the House.
