119 HRES 517 IH: Congratulating St. Joseph’s Hospital of Savannah, Georgia, upon its 150th anniversary.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-06-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 517
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 17, 2025
Mr. Carter of Georgia
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Congratulating St. Joseph’s Hospital of Savannah, Georgia, upon its 150th anniversary.
Whereas the genesis of St. Joseph’s Hospital began in 1875 when the Sisters of Mercy took over operations of the Forest City Marine Hospital in what is now Savannah’s National Historic Landmark District;
Whereas, since its inception, Savannahians have come to trust the consummate care, compassion, and medical expertise that have become synonymous with the name St. Joseph’s Hospital;
Whereas throughout its illustrious history, St. Joseph’s Hospital has built its heritage and reputation on a continued commitment to cutting-edge medicine through highly skilled physicians, top-notch clinical professionals, and state-of-the-art medical technologies and procedures;
Whereas as a not-for-profit community hospital, St. Joseph’s has had a profound and lasting impact on generations of Georgians and has continuously infused its community with an enriched sense of health, wellness, safety, and pride;
Whereas the core of this hospital’s mission-centric philosophy is rooted in God’s ever-present love, and its longevity is sustained by its consistent works of mercy, always focused on the people and communities it serves;
Whereas its strength in the Savannah community was further fortified by its joint affiliation with Candler Hospital in 1997, forming the largest and most experienced health care provider in Southeast Georgia while remaining locally controlled and governed;
Whereas St. Joseph’s/Candler was nationally recognized by the American Hospital Association with its prestigious Foster G. McGaw Award for its commitment to community outreach through innovative programs such as St. Mary’s Community Center, St. Mary’s Health Center, the Good Samaritan Clinic, the African-American Health Information & Resource Center, the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program, and the Angels of Mercy Community Volunteer Corps; and
Whereas, as St. Joseph’s Hospital celebrates the historic occasion of its 150th anniversary, it is fitting to honor its rich past, salute the strength of its faith-filled service in treating illness and promoting wellness for all people in the communities it serves, and look forward with tremendous pride to its sustained health and future growth for the benefit of all residents of Southeast Georgia: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
congratulates St. Joseph's Hospital, the Sisters of Mercy, the hospital's past and present leadership team, and all its coworkers on the grand occasion of its 150th anniversary; and
(2)
extends best wishes for its continued service to the citizens of the City of Savannah and the surrounding regions.
