119 HRES 132 IH: Censuring Representative Robert Garcia of California for inciting violence against a special government employee.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-02-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 132
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 13, 2025
Ms. Mace
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ethics
RESOLUTION
Censuring Representative Robert Garcia of California for inciting violence against a special government employee.
Whereas Elon Reeve Musk is a successful businessman serving as a special government employee;
Whereas Elon Reeve Musk is working expeditiously as part of the U.S. DOGE Service Temporary Organization (commonly referred to as the Department of Government Efficiency), alongside President Donald J. Trump, to root out waste, fraud, and abuse in the Federal Government;
Whereas Representative Robert Garcia referred to Elon Reeve Musk, a special government employee, as a “dick” during a hearing entitled “The War on Waste: Stamping Out the Scourge of Improper Payments and Fraud” held by the Subcommittee on Delivering on Government Efficiency on February 12, 2025;
Whereas Representative Robert Garcia escalated his rhetoric on CNN News Central on February 12, 2025, calling on fellow members of the Democratic Party to “bring actual weapons to this bar fight” against Elon Reeve Musk, a special government employee;
Whereas in stating that his fellow members of the Democratic Party should “bring actual weapons” to fight against Elon Reeve Musk, Representative Robert Garcia attempted to incite violence against a special government employee of the Federal Government;
Whereas the leadership of the Democratic Party has failed to condemn Representative Robert Garcia’s attempts to incite violence against Elon Reeve Musk, a special government employee;
Whereas violence, threats of violence, or attempts to incite violence against Federal employees should not be tolerated in the House of Representatives; and
Whereas Representative Robert Garcia’s attempt to incite violence against a special government employee affects the dignity and integrity of the proceedings of the House: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
Representative Robert Garcia of California be censured;
(2)
Representative Robert Garcia forthwith present himself in the well of the House of Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; and
(3)
Representative Robert Garcia be censured with the public reading of this resolution by the Speaker.
