119 HRES 917 IH: Congratulating Korson’s Tree Farms in Montcalm County in Sidney Township for being selected to provide the 2025 White House Christmas Tree.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-12-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 917
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 1, 2025
Mr. Moolenaar
(for himself,
Mr. James
,
Mr. Bergman
,
Ms. Scholten
,
Mr. Huizenga
,
Mr. Walberg
,
Mrs. Dingell
,
Mr. Barrett
,
Ms. McDonald Rivet
,
Mrs. McClain
,
Ms. Stevens
,
Ms. Tlaib
, and
Mr. Thanedar
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
RESOLUTION
Congratulating Korson’s Tree Farms in Montcalm County in Sidney Township for being selected to provide the 2025 White House Christmas Tree.
Whereas Korson’s Tree Farms has been crowned Grand Champion of the National Christmas Tree Association Christmas Tree Contest;
Whereas Korson’s Tree Farms will provide the official 2025 White House Christmas tree;
Whereas, in 2017, Korson’s Tree Farms won the Michigan Grand Champion Tree Contest;
Whereas, in 2015, Korson’s Tree Farms won the reserve champion in the 2015 National Christmas Tree Association Christmas Tree Contest, providing a Christmas tree to the Vice President’s residence;
Whereas Korson’s Tree Farms is the first Michigan grower in 41 years to supply the official White House Christmas tree;
Whereas 1985 was the last time a Michigan tree was displayed at the White House and won the National Christmas Tree Association Christmas Tree contest;
Whereas Michigan is home to over 500 Christmas tree farms;
Whereas 37,000 acres are in commercial Christmas tree production in Michigan;
Whereas Michigan ranks third in the Nation in the number of Christmas trees harvested;
Whereas Michigan boasts an annual farm gate value of more than $40,000,000 in sales of wreaths, cut boughs, garlands, and other cut greens;
Whereas the Michigan congressional delegation congratulates Korson’s Tree Farms for winning the National Christmas Tree Association Christmas Tree Contest; and
Whereas having a Michigan Christmas tree as the official White House Christmas Tree for 2025 is a source of pride for all Michiganders: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
congratulates Korson’s Tree Farms in Montcalm County in Sidney Township as being selected to provide the 2025 White House Christmas tree;
(2)
recognizes the agricultural and economic significance of the Christmas tree industry to the State of Michigan and the Nation;
(3)
invites Korson’s Tree Farms to the United States Capitol Building to be honored; and
(4)
directs the Clerk of the House of Representatives to make available enrolled copies of this resolution to President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump for appropriate display.
