SECTION 1. Establishment of the  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ") which shall be composed of a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, and other representatives of business and industry appointed by the Secretary of   (hereinafter referred to as the "Secretary").

(b) The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Chairman, shall appoint an Executive Director of the  .

 . 2. Functions of the  . The   shall advise the President,  ,  ,  , and other Government agencies as appropriate, through the Secretary, on programs of business relating to consumer affairs. It shall work closely with the above-described agencies in the further development of effective policies to benefit   consumers and in doing so may—

(1) Identify and examine current and potential consumer problems and evaluate alternative solutions.

(2) Provide a forum for business and government on current and emerging issues in the field of consumer affairs.

(3) Identify, recommend, and encourage action by the business community to meet legitimate consumer grievances.

(4) Provide liaison among members of the business and industrial community on consumer affairs matters.

(5) Advise on plans and actions of  , and local agencies involving policies on consumer affairs which affect business and industry.

 . 3. Subordinate Councils. The   may establish, with the concurrence of the Secretary, such subordinate councils as it may deem appropriate to assist in the performance of its functions. Each subordinate council shall be headed by a chairman appointed by the Chairman of the   with the concurrence of the Secretary.

 . 4. Assistance for the  . In compliance with applicable law, and as necessary to serve the purposes of this  , the Secretary shall provide or arrange for administrative and staff services, support, and facilities for the   and any of its subordinate councils.

 . 5. Expenses. Members of the   or any of its subordinate councils shall receive no compensation from   by reason of their services hereunder, but may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

 . 6. Regulations. The provisions of Executive Order No.   of  , prescribing regulations for the use of advisory committees, are hereby made applicable to the   and each of its subordinate councils. The Secretary may exercise the discretionary powers set forth in that order.

 . 7. Construction. Nothing in this   shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency to the authority of any other Federal agency or of the   or of any of its subordinate councils, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
