SECTION 1. There shall be in   a Special Assistant to the President for   with Former Presidents (referred to hereinafter as the Special Assistant).

 . 2. (a) On behalf of the President, the Special Assistant shall maintain channels of communication between the President and each former living President of  , to the end that (1) each such former President shall be kept abreast of such developments as the President may desire; and (2) the President may avail himself of the counsel and advice of any or all of such former Presidents with respect to major matters, particularly of a national security nature, currently confronting the President.

(b) The Special Assistant shall also

(1) Keep each former President currently informed of the major aspects of such principal international and domestic problems as the President directs;

(2) Arrange to secure from such former Presidents, or any of them, and convey to the President, their views on such issues as the President may designate; and

(3) Arrange to secure and convey to the President such views as any of the former Presidents may wish to communicate to the President on any issue of current interest or concern.

 . 3. (a) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the Executive Secretary of   shall each designate a member of his staff as a point of contact for the Special Assistant. The Special Assistant may call upon such designated staff members to supply information and render such other appropriate assistance as he may require in carrying out his duties under section 2 of this  .

(b) Upon request of the Special Assistant, the head of any department or agency of   shall designate a member of his staff as a point of contact to supply information and assistance for the Special Assistant in the performance of his duties in the same manner as provided in subsection (a) for staff members designated pursuant to that subsection.

 . 4. The Special Assistant shall be appointed by the President and shall serve at the pleasure of the President. He shall receive compensation at such rate as the President, consonant with law, may prescribe.

 . 5. (a) The Special Assistant shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out his duties under this  .

(b) The Special Assistant shall be provided with such office space as may be necessary to carry out his duties under this  , and shall also be provided with such office space, and maintenance thereof, as may be necessary for the use of former Presidents at the seat of Government when they are engaged in any effort of interest or concern to the President.

 . 6. (a) The compensation and expenses of the Special Assistant and members of his staff shall be paid from the appropriation under the heading "Special Projects" in  ,  , or any corresponding appropriation which may be made for subsequent  , or from such other appropriated funds as may be available under law.

(b)   shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative services and facilities for the Special Assistant as   may request.
