SECTION 1. In conformity with sections 202(b) and (c) of the Act (40 U.S.C. 483 (b) and (c)), the head of each executive agency, consistent with the policies 'et forth in   No. A-2,  , shall:

(1) institute immediately a vigorous and complete survey of all real property under his control; and

(2) make a report to   within   of the date of this order, listing any such property or portion thereof, and state whether it is not utilized, is underutilized, or is not being put to its optimum use.

 . 2.   shall:

(1) within   of the date of this order, and in implementation of the policies set forth in   No. A-2,  , establish uniform standards and procedures for the identification of real property that is not utilized, is underutilized, or is not being put to its optimum use, and the heads of other executive agencies shall thereafter conform their policies, regulations, and practices to the provisions of such standards and procedures;

(2) within   of the date of this order, institute, and thereafter conduct on a continuing basis, a survey of the real property holdings of all executive agencies to identify properties which in his judgment are not utilized, are underutilized, or are not being put to their optimum use; and

(3) make reports to the President, listing any property or portion thereof (identified either by Executive agencies or as a result of the Administrator's survey) which has not been reported excess and which in the Administrator's judgment is either not utilized, is underutilized, or is not being put to its optimum use, and which in his judgment should be reported as excess property.

 . 3. (a) The reports required of   by section 2 of this order shall be made to the President through  , which is hereby established.

(b) The members of   shall be the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  ,  , and such other officers or employees of the   branch as the President may from time to time designate. One of the members of the   shall be designated by the President as Chairman.   shall have an   Secretary, who shall be appointed by the President.

(c)   shall review the reports made by   pursuant to section 2 of this order, as well as other reports to the President making recommendations for the use or disposition of specific parcels of real property, with particular attention to conflicting claims on, and alternative uses for, any property listed in such reports.   shall then make such recommendations to the President as it deems advisable regarding the use or disposal of such property.

 . 4. As used in this order:

(1) the term "executive agency" means "executive agency" as defined in section 3 (a) of the Act (40 U.S.C. 472(a)):

(2) the term "property", however modified, means real property, or an interest therein, which is covered by the definition of "property" set forth in section 3 (d) of the Act (40 U.S.C. 472(d)), and also lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain which are utilized by executive agencies for purposes other than national forests or national parks; and

(3) the term "excess property" means "excess property" as defined in section 3 (a) of the Act (40 U.S.C. 472(e)).
