SECTION 1. (a) All functions transferred to the President of   by Part I of the Plan (including the function vested by section 102(f) of designating the officials of   who shall act as Director during the absence or disability of the Deputy Director or in the event of a vacancy in the office of Deputy Director) are hereby delegated to the Director of   in   of the President. Such functions shall be carried out by the Director under the direction of the President and pursuant to such further instructions as the President from time to time may issue.

(b) All outstanding delegations, rules, regulations, orders, circulars, bulletins, or other forms of Executive or administrative action issued or taken by or relating to   prior to the effective date of this order shall, until amended or revoked, remain in full force and effect as if issued or taken by or relating to   or the Director of  .

 . 2. (a) Under the direction of the President and subject to such further instructions as the President from time to time may issue,   in the

Executive Office of the President shall (1) receive and develop information necessary for assessing national domestic needs and defining national domestic goals, and develop for the President alternative proposals for reaching those goals; (2) collaborate with   and others in the determination of national domestic priorities for the allocation of available resources; (3) collaborate with   and others to assure a continuing review of ongoing programs from the standpoint of their relative contributions to national goals as compared with their use of available resources; and (4) provide policy advice to the President on domestic issues.

(b) The organizations listed herein are terminated, and the functions heretofore assigned to them shall be performed by   (Executive Order No.   of  )

  on the Environment (Executive Order No. 11472 of  , as amended by Executive Order No.  )   (Executive Order No. 11493 of  )

 . 3 This order shall be effective  .
