SECTION 1. Pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 30 of   of  , notice is hereby given that that act shall be effective as of  .

 . 2 (a) There is hereby delegated to   (hereinafter referred to as the "Administrator"), all authority vested in the President by   of  .

(b) The Administrator shall submit to the   the reports required by section 4 (c) (2) of   of  .

 . 3 (a) There is hereby delegated to the Administrator the authority vested in the President by section 203 (a) (3) of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, to the extent such authority remains available under the provisions of section 218 of that act.

(b) The authority under the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, that was delegated to   by the Chairman of   pursuant to section 4 (b) of Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby transferred to the Administrator to the extent such authority remains available under the provisions of section 218 of that act.

 . 4. Notwithstanding the provisions of Executive Order No.  , as amended, the Administrator is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President by the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, except section 708 thereof, as it relates to the production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy, without approval, ratification, or other action of the President or any other official of the executive branch of the Government.

 . 5 (a)   established by Executive Order No.   is hereby abolished, and that   order is hereby revoked.

(b) The authority vested in   to appoint a Deputy Administrator of that   and to compensate that officer at the rate prescribed for officers and positions at level HI of   (5 U.S.C.  ) is hereby revoked.

(c) All orders, regulations, circulars, or other directives issued and all other actions taken pursuant to any authority delegated or transferred to the Administrator by this order prior to and in effect on the date of this order are hereby confirmed and ratified, and shall remain in full force and effect, as if issued under this order, unless or until altered, amended, or revoked by the Administrator or by such competent authority as he may specify.

(d) All personnel, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, available, or to be made available in connection with functions of  , as Administrator of that   or as Chairman of  , are hereby transferred to the Administrator.

 . 6. All authority delegated or transferred to the Administrator by this order may be further delegated, in whole or in part, by the Administrator to any other office or any department or agency of  , or, if authorized by law, to any   or officer thereof.

 . 7 (a) Proclamation No.  , as amended, is hereby amended by striking "Secretary of the  " and "Secretary" wherever it appears in that Proclamation and inserting in lieu thereof "Administrator of  ."

(b)   established by the Secretary of the   pursuant to section 5 (a) of Proclamation No.  , as amended, is hereby continued until such time as the Administrator shall otherwise direct. The Administrator, at his pleasure, may designate a representative of   to be a member of   in place of the representative of   specified in the last sentence of section 5 (a) of that proclamation.

(c)   is hereby abolished and sections 7,  , and 9 of Proclamation No.  , as amended, are hereby revoked. The functions of the Chairman of   are hereby transferred to the Administrator.

(d) Section 10 of Proclamation No.  , as amended, is hereby amended by inserting after "Cost of Living Council" the following "or  , as the case may be,".

(e) Section 2 of Executive Order No. 11775 of  , is hereby revoked.

 . 8. Except as provided in section 5 (d), so much of the personnel, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, available, or to be made available, in connection with the functions transferred to the Administrator by this order or by   of   as the Director of   shall determine shall be transferred at such time or times as the Director shall direct for use in connection with the functions so transferred.

 . 9. Nothing in this order shall be deemed to affect rights to reemployment under the provisions of section 5 (a) (1) (B) of   of  , or section 212(g) of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended.

 . 10. The provisions of sections 2 through 9 of this order shall be effective as of  , the effective date of   of   specified in section 1 of this order.
