SECTION 1.  , established by Section 2 of Executive Order No. 11615 of August 15,  , and continued by Executive Order No. 11627 of  , Executive Order No.   of January 26,  , Executive Order No. 11695 of  , Executive Order No. 11730 of  , and Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby abolished.

 . 2. All the powers and duties conferred upon the President by the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, are hereby delegated to the Secretary of the   who shall exercise them so as to provide for the orderly termination of  . That authority shall be exercised only to the extent necessary to provide for the orderly termination of  , including the taking of appropriate action with respect to any action or pending proceedings, civil or criminal, not finally determined on  , or with respect to any act committed prior to  , and as hereinafter provided. The Secretary of the   is authorized to redelegate such powers and duties to other officials or agencies of  , as may be appropriate.

 . 3. The Secretary of the   or his designee shall provide for the continuation of any action or pending proceedings, civil or criminal, not finally determined prior to  , as appropriate. He shall continue to receive reports and review pay adjustments with respect to work performed prior to  , and price adjustments with respect to prices charged prior to  , and take appropriate remedial action whenever he finds such adjustments were in violation of applicable Economic Stabilization Regulations.

 . 4. Nothing in this   shall be construed as authorizing the imposition or reimposition of any mandatory economic controls with respect to prices, rents, wages, salaries, corporate dividends, interest rates, or any similar transfer, other than on the basis of the authority provided in   and 3 of this   with respect to enforcement activity related to the period prior to  .

 . 5 (a). The Secretary of the   or his designee is authorized:

(1) To employ such personnel as he deems necessary to perform the functions conferred upon him by this  , including personnel previously employed by  .

(2) To appoint, pursuant to Section 212 (b) of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, not more than one officer who shall be compensated at the rate prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C.  ) for the purposed of carrying out functions under this   through  .

(3) To place no more than 3 positions in  ,  , and 18, pursuant to Section 212(d) of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, for purposes of carrying out this   through  .

(4) To receive from   and be the custodian of all the records and data not otherwise properly disposed of by  , including the records and data of all Advisory Committees to the  .

(5) To receive from   custody of and accountability for property (real and personal) and equipment not otherwise properly disposed of by  .

(b) The Secretary of the   shall

(1) provide for the compilation of a history of   by  ; and

(2) provide for the appropriate disposition of all property (real and personal), records, data, and personnel transferred hereunder or relating to the activities conferred upon him by this  .

 . 6. Any officer or employee who was serving in  , on or before  , and who while so serving was guaranteed reemployment rights to his former agency by virtue of such service, shall retain such rights through  , if employed by the Secretary of the   or his designee to perform functions under this  , without a break in service of   or more.

 . 7. The following committees and boards are abolished:

(1) The Cost of Living Council Committee on Health established by Section 6 of Executive Order No. 11695 of  , and continued through  , by Executive Order No.   of  .

(2) The Cost of Living Council Committee on Food established by Section 7 of Executive Order No. 11695 of  , and continued through  , by Executive Order No.   of  .

(3)   established by Section 8 of Executive Order No. 11695 of  , and continued through  , by Executive Order No.   of  .

(4)  , established by Executive Order No.   of  , and continued by Executive Order No. 11695 of  , and Executive Order No.   of  .

 . 8. The Secretary of the  , or his designee, may, for the purposes of carrying out this  , continue any advisory committees previously established by   and not abolished by the   prior to the effective date of this Order. He shall make appropriate provisions for abolishing, on or before  , all   committees so continued.

 . 9. This   shall not be deemed to affect any authority (1) exercised by   with respect to pricing and allocation of crude oil, residual fuel oil, and refined petroleum products (as defined in   of  ), pursuant to the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended,   of  , Executive Order No.   of  , or Cost of ' Living Council Order No.  , as amended, or (2) any comparable authority vested in, or delegated to,  .

 . 10. Executive  .   of  , Executive Order No. 11627 of  , Executive Order No.   of January 26,  , Executive Order No. 11695 of  , Executive Order No.  , Executive Order No. 11730 of  , and Executive Order No.   of  , are revoked.

 . 11. Sections 1 through 10 of this   shall be effective as of  .

 . 12(a). There is hereby established  , which shall be composed of the Counsellor to the President for Economic Policy, who shall be its Chairman, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Executive Director of  , and such other members as the President may, from time to time, designate.

(b) The President's   shall review Government activities significantly affecting food costs and prices and provide coordination for the  's policy relating to domestic and international food supplies and relating to food costs and prices.

(c) The President's   shall terminate on  .
