SECTION 1. There is hereby established in   of the President a Special Action Office for Drug Abuse Prevention. The Office shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of a Director, who shall be designated by the President.

FUNCTIONS OF THE  

 . 2 (a) The Director shall be the special representative of the President with respect to all Federal drug abuse training, education, rehabilitation, research, treatment, and prevention programs and activities (exclusive of law enforcement activities and legal proceedings).

(b) The Director shall prescribe policies, guidelines, standards, and criteria for the maximum achievement of the goals and objectives for those programs and activities. To the maximum extent permitted by law, Federal officers and Federal departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Director in carrying out his functions under this   and shall comply with the policies, guidelines, standards, and procedures prescribed by the Director pursuant to this subsection.

(c) In addition, the Director shall

(1) develop comprehensive plans and programs to combat drug abuse including goals and objectives therefor;

(2) assure that all Federal drug abuse programs and activities are properly coordinated;

(3) evaluate all such programs;

(4) advise the heads of departments and agencies of his findings and recommendations, when appropriate;

(5) make recommendations to the Director of   concerning proposed funding of drug abuse programs;

(6) establish a clearing house for the prompt consideration of drug abuse problems brought to his attention by Federal departments and agencies and by other public and private entities, organizations, agencies, or individuals; and

(7) report to the President, from time to time, concerning the foregoing.

 

 . 3 (a) Expenses of   shall be paid from the appropriation under the heading "Special Projects," in  ,  , or any corresponding appropriations which may be made for subsequent   or from such other appropriated funds as may be available therefor.

(b)   shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative services and facilities for the Director and   as the Director may request.
