SECTION 1. (a)   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), consisting of representatives of  , the  ,  , and  , with the representative of   as Chairman, is hereby established to supervise the implementation of all textile trade agreements. It shall be located for administrative purposes in  . The President's  , or his designee, shall he a non-voting member of the  .

(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, the Chairman of the  , after notice to the representatives of the other member agencies, shall take such actions or shall recommend that appropriate officials or agencies of   take such actions as may be necessary to implement each such textile trade agreement: Provided, however, that if a majority of the voting members of the   have objected to such action within   of receipt of notice from the Chairman, such action shall not be taken except as may otherwise be authorized.

(c) To the extent authorized by the President and by such officials as the President may from time to time designate, the   shall take appropriate actions concerning textiles and textile products under Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of  , as amended, and   and 6 of the Long Term Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Cotton Textiles done at   on  , as extended, and with respect to any other matter affecting textile trade policy.

 . 2. (a) The Commissioner of   shall take such actions as the  , acting through its Chairman, shall recommend to carry out all agreements and arrangements entered into by   pursuant to Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of  , as amended, with respect to entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption in   of textiles and textile products.

(b) Under instructions approved by the  , the Secretary of   shall designate the Chairman of   delegation to all negotiations and consultations with foreign governments undertaken with respect to the implementation of textile trade agreements pursuant to this  . The Secretary of   shall make such representations to foreign governments, including the presentation of diplomatic notes and other communications, as may be necessary to carry out this  .

 . 3. Executive  .   of September 28,  , as amended, and Executive Order No.   of  , are hereby superseded. Directives issued thereunder to   shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their terms until modified pursuant to this  .

 . 4. This   shall be effective upon its publication in  .
