SECTION 1.  , an advisory agency in matters relating to the protection of Federal employees and property from fire, which was established within   by Executive Order No. 7397 of  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , is hereby transferred to and established in  .  , hereinafter referred to as the  , shall, in the exercise of its functions, be responsible to the Secretary of  . The Secretary or his designee shall serve as Chairman of the  .

 . 2. Members of the  , who shall serve without additional compensation, shall be officers or employees of the various departments and agencies of  , and of   designated by the respective heads thereof. Each department and agency, and  , shall be entitled to designate one member of the   and may designate such additional members as the governing body of the   may authorize.

 . 3. The   shall have a governing body composed of the Chairman of the  , who shall also serve as its Chairman, and representatives of the Secretaries of the Interior, Health, Education, and  ,  , the  , the  , and   and of  . The Chairman shall appoint such other officers and committees as he may deem necessary to carry out the functions of the  .

 . 4. The   is authorized to develop standards, procedures, and forms, and, on request, to conduct surveys or such other investigations as may be necessary to determine what measures should be taken to safeguard life and property from the hazards of fire, including review of plans for new construction. The   is also authorized to make such independent studies of Federal buildings and property as it may deem desirable from the standpoint of fire protection and to maintain a record of fire losses on Government property.

 . 5. The   shall report the results of such investigations and studies to the head of the agency concerned, together with its recommendations.

 . 6. In case of fires involving   records, the agency concerned should notify   of   and obtain its advice as to methods by which the maximum salvage of the records involved may be secured.

 . 7. In carrying out their functions under this order, the  , its governing body, and the Secretary of   shall consult, as appropriate, with   established by Executive Order No. 11612 of  .

 . 8. Executive Orders No. 7397 of  , and No. 10257 of June 23,  , are hereby superseded.
