1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Microloan Modernization Act of 2015
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
the term
intermediary
has the meaning given that term in section 7(m)(11) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(m)(11)
); and
(2)
the term
microloan program
means the program established under section 7(m) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(m)
).
3.
Microloan intermediary lending limit increased
Section 7(m)(3)(C) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(m)(3)(C)
) is amended by striking
$5,000,000
and inserting
$6,000,000
.
4.
Waivers of 25/75 rule
Section 7(m)(4)(E) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(m)(4)(E)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(iii)
Waiver
(I)
In general
The Administrator shall by rule, after a notice and comment period of not less than 60 days, establish a process by which an intermediary may apply for and the Administrator may grant a waiver from the requirements of clause (i).
(II)
Contents
The rule required under subclause (I) shall—
(aa)
require any applicant for a waiver to—
(AA)
specify how the applicant will use the additional technical assistance; and
(BB)
provide assurance, in a form provided for by the Administrator in the rule, that the intermediary will have sufficient funds to provide technical assistance to all borrowers of the intermediary; and
(bb)
incorporate any delegation of the authority of the Administrator to approve waivers to any appropriate subsidiary official.
.
5.
Lines of credit authorized
Section 7(m)(6)(A) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(m)(6)(A)
) is amended by inserting
(including lines of credit)
after
short-term
.
6.
Extended repayment terms
Section 7(m)(6) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(m)(6)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:.
(F)
Repayment terms for loans to small businesses
The Administrator may not impose limitations on the term for repayment of a loan made by an intermediary to a small business concern or entrepreneur, except that—
(i)
in the case of a loan made by an intermediary of not more than $10,000, the repayment term shall be not more than 6 years; and
(ii)
in the case of a loan made by an intermediary of more than $10,000, the repayment term shall be not more than 10 years.
.
7.
GAO study of microenterprise participation
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study and submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report on—
(1)
the operations (including services provided, structure, size, and area of operation) of a representative sample of—
(A)
intermediaries that are eligible to participate in the microloan program and that do participate; and
(B)
intermediaries (including those operated for profit, operated as non-profits, and those affiliated with a United States institution of higher learning) that are eligible to participate in the microloan program and that do not participate;
(2)
the reasons why intermediaries described in paragraph (1)(B) choose not to participate in the microloan program;
(3)
recommendations on how to encourage increased participation in the microloan program by intermediaries described in paragraph (1)(B); and
(4)
recommendations on how to decrease the costs associated with participation in the microloan program for eligible intermediaries.
