1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
James K. Polk Presidential Home Study Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
in 1961, the James K. Polk Home was designated as a National Historic Landmark; and
(2)
in April 2015, the National Park Service completed a reconnaissance survey of the James K. Polk Home, in which the National Park Service—
(A)
determined that—
(i)
the James K. Polk Home is conclusively nationally significant; and
(ii)
a special resource study is needed to fully analyze the suitability, feasibility, and need for management of the James K. Polk Home by the National Park Service; and
(B)
recommended that Congress consider authorizing a special resource study for the James K. Polk Home and associated properties.
3.
Study
(a)
In
general
The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall conduct a special resource study of the site of the James K. Polk Home in Columbia, Tennessee, and adjacent property (referred to in this Act as the
site
).
(b)
Criteria
The Secretary shall conduct the study under subsection (a) in accordance with section 100507 of title 54, United States Code.
(c)
Contents
In conducting the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
evaluate the national significance of the site;
(2)
determine the suitability and feasibility of designating the site as a unit of the National Park System;
(3)
include cost estimates for any necessary acquisition, development, operation, and maintenance of the site;
(4)
consult with interested Federal, State, or local governmental entities, private and nonprofit organizations, or other interested individuals;
(5)
include an analysis of the effect of the site on—
(A)
existing commercial and recreational activities;
(B)
the authorization, construction, operation, maintenance, or improvement of energy production and transmission or other infrastructure in the area; and
(C)
the authority of State and local governments to manage the activities described in subparagraphs (A) and (B);
(6)
include an identification of any authorities (including condemnation) that would compel or permit the Secretary to influence or participate in local land use decisions (such as zoning) or place restrictions on non-Federal land if the site is designated as a unit of the National Park System; and
(7)
identify alternatives for the management, administration, and protection of the site.
(d)
Report
Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are made available to carry out the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that describes—
(1)
the findings and conclusions of the study; and
(2)
any recommendations of the Secretary.
