1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act
.
2.
Action on applications
(a)
Decision deadline
For proposals that must also obtain authorization from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or
the United States Maritime Administration to site, construct, expand, or
operate liquefied natural gas export facilities, the Secretary of Energy
(referred to in
this section as the
Secretary
) shall issue a
final decision on any application for the authorization to export natural
gas under section 3(a) of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b(a)
) not
later than
45 days after the later of—
(1)
the conclusion of the review to site, construct, expand, or operate the liquefied natural gas
export facilities required by
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
);
or
(2)
the date of enactment of this Act.
(b)
Conclusion of review
For purposes of subsection (a), review required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
)
shall be considered concluded when the lead agency—
(1)
for a project requiring an Environmental Impact Statement, publishes a Final
Environmental Impact Statement;
(2)
for a project for which an Environmental Assessment has been prepared, publishes a
Finding of No Significant Impact; or
(3)
determines that an application is eligible for a categorical exclusion
pursuant to National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et
seq.) implementing
regulations.
(c)
Judicial action
(1)
Jurisdiction
The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit or the circuit in which the
liquefied natural gas
export facility will be located
pursuant to an application described in subsection (a) shall have original
and exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action for the review of—
(A)
an order issued by the Secretary with respect to such application; or
(B)
the failure of the Secretary to issue a final decision on such application.
(2)
Order to issue decision
If the Court in a civil action described in paragraph (1) finds that the Secretary has
failed to issue a decision on the application as required under
subsection (a), the Court shall order the Secretary to issue
the decision not later than 30 days after the Court’s order.
(3)
Expedited consideration
The Court shall set any civil action brought under this subsection for expedited consideration and
shall set the matter on the docket as soon as practical after the filing
date of the initial pleading.
(4)
Appeals
In the case of an application described in subsection (a) for which a petition for review has been
filed—
(A)
upon motion by an applicant, the matter shall be transferred to the United States Court of Appeals
for
the District of Columbia Circuit or the circuit in which a liquefied
natural gas export
facility will be located pursuant to an
application described in section 3(a) of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C.
717b(a)); and
(B)
the provisions of this Act shall apply.
3.
Public disclosure of export destinations
Section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(g)
Public Disclosure of LNG Export Destinations
(1)
In general
In the case of any authorization to export liquefied natural gas, the Secretary of Energy shall
require the applicant to report to the Secretary of Energy the names of
the 1 or more countries of destination to which the exported liquefied
natural gas is delivered.
(2)
Timing
The applicant shall file the report required under paragraph (1) not later than—
(A)
in the case of the first export, the last day of the month following the month of the first export;
and
(B)
in the case of subsequent exports, the date that is 30 days after the last day of the applicable
month concerning the activity of the previous month.
(3)
Disclosure
The Secretary of Energy shall publish the information reported under this subsection on the website
of the Department of Energy and otherwise make the information available
to the public.
.
