1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Volunteer Firefighters and Emergency Responders Act
.
2.
Emergency services, government, and certain nonprofit volunteers
(a)
In general
Subsection (c) of
section 4980H
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), and (7) as paragraphs (6), (7), and (8), respectively, and by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
(5)
Special rules for certain emergency services, government, and nonprofit volunteers
(A)
Emergency services volunteers
Qualified services rendered as a bona fide volunteer to an eligible employer shall not be taken into account under this section as service provided by an employee. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the terms
qualified services
,
bona fide volunteer
, and
eligible employer
shall have the respective meanings given such terms under section 457(e).
(B)
Certain other government and nonprofit volunteers
(i)
In general
Services rendered as a bona fide volunteer to a specified employer shall not be taken into account under this section as service provided by an employee.
(ii)
Bona fide volunteer
For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
bona fide volunteer
means an employee of a specified employer whose only compensation from such employer is in the form of—
(I)
reimbursement for (or reasonable allowance for) reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of services by volunteers, or
(II)
reasonable benefits (including length of service awards), and nominal fees, customarily paid by similar entities in connection with the performance of services by volunteers.
(iii)
Specified employer
For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
specified employer
means—
(I)
any government entity, and
(II)
any organization described in section 501(c) and exempt from tax under section 501(a).
(iv)
Coordination with subparagraph
(A)
This subparagraph shall not fail to apply with respect to services merely because such services are qualified services (as defined in section 457(e)(11)(C)).
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to months beginning after December 31, 2013.
