1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fair Medicare Hospital Payments Act of 2016
.
2.
Ensuring fairness in Medicare hospital payments in a budget neutral manner
(a)
Hospital inpatient services
Section 1886(d)(3)(E) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395www(d)(3)(E)
) is amended—
(1)
in clause (i), by striking
clause (ii) or (iii)
and inserting
clause (ii), (iii), or (iv)
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(iv)
Floor on area wage index for hospitals in certain other areas
(I)
In general
For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2016, the area wage index applicable under this subparagraph to any hospital which is not located in a frontier State (as defined in clause (iii)(II)) may not be less than 0.874.
(II)
Ensuring budget neutrality
In order to ensure that the aggregate payments made under this subsection for a fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 2017) are not greater than the aggregate payments that would have been made under this subsection for such fiscal year without the application of subclause (I), as estimated by the Secretary, the Secretary shall establish pursuant to rulemaking a maximum area wage index to apply under this subparagraph to any hospital which is not located in a frontier State (as defined in clause (iii)(II)).
(III)
No impact for hospitals with an area wage index between the floor and the maximum index
Subclauses (I) and (II) shall have no affect on the area wage index applicable in a fiscal year to a hospital with an area wage index that is greater than the floor under subclause (I) but less than the maximum area wage index established under subclause (II) for the fiscal year.
.
(b)
Hospital outpatient department services
Section 1833(t) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395l(t)
), is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)(D), by striking
paragraph (19), the Secretary
and inserting
paragraphs (19) and (22), the Secretary
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(22)
Floor on area wage adjustment factor for hospital outpatient department services in areas other than in frontier States
(A)
In general
With respect to covered OPD services furnished on or after January 1, 2017, the area wage adjustment factor applicable under the payment system established under this subsection to any hospital outpatient department which is not located in a frontier State (as defined in section 1886(d)(3)(E)(iii)(II)) may not be less than 0.874.
(B)
Ensuring budget neutrality
In order to ensure that the aggregate payments made under this subsection for a year (beginning with 2017) are not greater than the aggregate payments that would have been made under this subsection for such year without the application of subparagraph (A), as estimated by the Secretary, the Secretary shall establish pursuant to rulemaking a maximum area wage adjustment factor to apply under the payment system established under this subsection to any hospital outpatient department which is not located in a frontier State (as defined in clause (iii)(II)).
(C)
No impact for hospitals with an area wage adjustment factor between the floor and the maximum
factor
Subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall have no affect on the area wage adjustment factor applicable in a year to a hospital with an area wage adjustment factor that is greater than the floor under subparagraph (A) but less than the maximum area wage adjustment factor established under subparagraph (B) for the year.
.
