1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Recovering Erroneous Credits from Outlaws and Unlawful Persons Act of 2016
or the
RECOUP Act of 2016
.
2.
Recapture of refundable credit for coverage under a qualified health plan
(a)
In general
Subsection (e) of
section 36B
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Recapture of improperly paid advance payments
Notwithstanding subsection (f)(2)(B), if any advance payment is made under section 1412 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act for a coverage month in a taxable year with respect to 1 or more individuals—
(A)
who are not lawfully present, or
(B)
who are incarcerated, other than incarceration pending the disposition of charges,
the tax imposed by
this chapter for the taxable year shall be increased by the total amount
of such payment which is attributable to such individuals. The preceding
sentence shall apply to a coverage month only if the individual is
described in subparagraph (A) or (B) for the entire month. Subparagraph
(B) shall apply without regard to whether the individual was incarcerated
at the time of enrollment in the plan.
.
(b)
Clarification of treatment of incarcerated individuals
Subsection (e) of
section 36B
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by subsection (a), is amended—
(1)
by striking
individuals not lawfully present
in the heading and inserting
certain ineligible individuals
,
(2)
by striking
In general
in the heading of paragraph (1) and inserting
Individuals not lawfully present
,
(3)
by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively, and
(4)
by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
(3)
Incarcerated individuals
(A)
In general
If 1 or more individuals for whom a taxpayer is allowed a deduction under section 151 for the taxable year (including the taxpayer or the taxpayer's spouse) are incarcerated (other than incarceration pending the disposition of charges) during any coverage month in such year, the aggregate amount of premiums otherwise taken into account under clauses (i) and (ii) of subsection (b)(2)(A) shall be reduced by the portion (if any) of such premiums which is attributable to such individuals for such month.
(B)
Reporting with respect to prisoner information
The determination of whether an individual is incarcerated for a coverage month shall be based on the information provided to the Secretary under section 6116.
.
(c)
Conforming amendment
Subparagraph (B) of
section 36B(f)(2)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
Exception
For taxpayers to whom this subparagraph does not apply, see subsection (f)(5).
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2016.
