1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Keeping Aircraft Away from Terrorists Act of 2016
.
2.
Prohibition on issuance of licenses relating to exporting or reexporting certain aircraft to Iran
(a)
In general
The President or the head of an executive agency may not issue any license under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
) or subpart E of part 535 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, or provide other guidance (including in the form of executive actions, rules, regulations, frequently asked questions, written communications, or any other commitments), that permits—
(1)
a United States person to conduct a transaction related to the negotiation of, or entry into, a contract for any activity related to the export or re-export to Iran of aircraft or related parts or services;
(2)
a United States depository institution or United States registered broker or dealer in securities to conduct a transaction related to the negotiation of, or entry into, such a contract; or
(3)
a foreign financial institution to conduct a transaction related to the negotiation of, or entry into, such a contract.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Executive agency
The term
executive agency
has the meaning given that term in section 133 of title 41, United States Code.
(2)
Foreign financial institution
The term
foreign financial institution
has the meaning given that term in section 1010.605 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 1, 2016.
(3)
United States depository institution
The term
United States depository institution
has the meaning given that term in section 560.319 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 1, 2016.
(4)
United States person
The term
United States person
means—
(A)
a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States; or
(B)
an entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.
(5)
United States registered broker or dealer in securities
The term
United States registered broker or dealers in securities
has the meaning given that term in section 560.321 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 1, 2016.
