1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cuban Airport Security Act of 2016
.
2.
Flights between the United States and Cuba
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall submit a report to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate
and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
on the following aspects of security measures at all Cuban airports served by United States aircraft operators and Cuban airports serving as last point of departure locations for foreign air carriers:
(1)
Details about the type of equipment used at screening checkpoints and an analysis of such equipment’s capabilities and weaknesses.
(2)
Information about each airport’s canine program, if used.
(3)
The frequency of training for screening and security personnel.
(4)
Access controls in place to ensure only credentialed personnel have access to the secure and sterile areas of such airports.
(5)
An assessment of the ability of known or suspected terrorists to use Cuba as a gateway to entering the United States.
(6)
Perimeter security at such airports.
(7)
A mitigation assessment regarding man-portable air defense systems.
(8)
The vetting practices and procedures for airport employees.
(9)
Compliance with United States security standards and procedures.
(10)
Any other information determined relevant to the security practices, procedures, and equipment in place at such airports.
(b)
GAO audit
The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit an audit of the report required under subsection (a) to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate
and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
.
(c)
Federal Air Marshal Service
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall seek to enter into an agreement with the Government of Cuba allowing the Federal Air Marshal Service to conduct missions on regularly scheduled passenger air transportation between a place in the United States and a place in Cuba.
(d)
TSA access to Cuban last point of departure airports
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall seek to enter into an agreement with the Government of Cuba that allows Transportation Security Administration inspectors to access all areas of last point of departure airports in Cuba for the purposes of security assessments.
(e)
Hiring and training requirements
Scheduled passenger air carriers—
(1)
shall be permitted to directly recruit, hire, and train local personnel in Cuba; and
(2)
such recruitment, hiring, or training may not be carried out through entities that are owned, operated, or controlled, in whole or in part, by Cuba’s Council of State, Council of Ministers, Communist Party, Ministry of the Revolutionary Armed Forces, or Ministry of the Interior.
(f)
Prohibition
No agreement dated on or after January 1, 2016, to expand regularly scheduled passenger air transportation between a place in the United States and a place in Cuba may be permitted until after—
(1)
the report and audit described in subsections (a) and (b) have been submitted;
(2)
the Secretary of Homeland Security has entered into the agreements described in subsections (c) and (d); and
(3)
the requirements under subsection (e) have been met.
(g)
Statutory construction
Nothing in this section may be constructed to affect charter passenger air transportation between a place in the United States and a place in Cuba.
3.
Security standards at foreign airports
Section 44907 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsections (a) through (d), by striking
Secretary of Transportation
each place it appears and inserting
Secretary of Homeland Security
; and
(2)
in subsection (e), in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking
the Secretary of Transportation, with the approval of the Secretary of State and without notice or a hearing, shall
and inserting
at the request of the Secretary of Homeland Security and with the approval of the Secretary of State and without notice or a hearing, the Secretary of Transportation shall
; and
(B)
by striking
when the Secretary of Transportation decides
and inserting
when the Secretary of Homeland Security decides
.
