1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Drug Free Commercial Driver Act of 2015
.
2.
Authorization of hair testing as an acceptable procedure for preemployment and random controlled substance tests
Section 31306 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(1)—
(A)
by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); and
(B)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
The regulations shall permit such motor carriers to conduct preemployment testing of such employees for the use of alcohol.
and inserting the following:
(B)
The regulations prescribed under subparagraph (A) shall permit motor carriers—
(i)
to conduct preemployment testing of commercial motor vehicle operators for the use of alcohol; and
(ii)
to use hair testing as an acceptable alternative to urinalysis—
(I)
in conducting preemployment screening for the use of a controlled substance; and
(II)
in conducting random screening for the use of a controlled substance by individuals who were subject to preemployment screening.
;
and
(2)
in subsection (c)(2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in subparagraph (C), by inserting
and
after the semicolon; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(D)
laboratory protocols and cut-off levels for hair testing to detect the use of a controlled substance;
.
3.
Exemption from
mandatory urinalysis
(a)
In
general
Any motor carrier that demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, that it can carry out an applicable hair testing program, consistent with generally accepted industry standards, to detect the use of a controlled substance by commercial motor vehicle operators, may apply to the Administrator for an exemption from the mandatory urinalysis testing requirements set forth in subpart C of part 382 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations until a final rule is issued implementing the amendments made by section 2.
(b)
Evaluation of applications
In evaluating applications for exemptions under subsection (a), the Administrator shall determine if the applicant’s testing program employs procedures and protections similar to fleets that have carried out hair testing programs for at least 1 year. A testing program may not receive an exemption under subsection (a) unless it uses a laboratory—
(1)
whose hair testing assays have been cleared by the Food and Drug Administration under section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360(k)
); and
(2)
has obtained laboratory accreditation for hair testing from the College of American Pathologists.
(c)
Reporting requirement
Any motor carrier that is granted an exemption under subsection (a) shall submit records to the national clearinghouse established under section 31306a of title 49, United States Code, relating to all positive test results and test refusals from the hair testing program described in that subsection.
4.
Guidelines for hair testing
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue scientific and technical guidelines for hair testing as a method of detecting the use of a controlled substance for purposes of section 31306 of title 49, United States Code, as amended by section 2.
5.
Annual report to
Congress
The Secretary of Transportation shall submit an annual report to Congress that—
(1)
summarizes the results of preemployment and random drug testing using both hair testing and urinalysis;
(2)
evaluates the efficacy of each method; and
(3)
determines which method provides the most accurate means of detecting the use of controlled substances over time.
