116 HRES 638 IH: Congratulating the Washington Mystics on winning the 2019 WomenГўВҖВҷs National Basketball Association championship.
U.S. House of Representatives
2019-10-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
116th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 638
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 17, 2019
Ms. Norton
(for herself,
Mr. Trone
,
Mr. Hoyer
,
Mr. Brown of Maryland
,
Mr. Raskin
,
Mr. Connolly
, and
Mr. Ruppersberger
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the Washington Mystics on winning the 2019 WomenГўВҖВҷs National Basketball Association
championship.
Whereas, on October 10, 2019, the Washington Mystics won the 2019 WomenГўВҖВҷs National Basketball Association (referred to in this preamble as the
WNBA
) championship;
Whereas that October 10, 2019, win is the first WNBA championship won by the Washington Mystics in the 22 years that the Washington Mystics have been in the WNBA;
Whereas the Washington Mystics beat the Connecticut Sun in the WNBA finals;
Whereas the Washington MysticsГўВҖВ”
(1)
dominated the competition in the regular season, with 26 wins and 8 losses, the best record of any team in the WNBA; and
(2)
earned the top seed in the playoffs;
Whereas the Washington Mystics play home games at the Entertainment and Sports Arena in Southeast Washington, DC;
Whereas the 2019 roster of Washington Mystics players includesГўВҖВ”
(1)
Ariel Atkins;
(2)
Natasha Cloud;
(3)
Elena Delle Donne;
(4)
Tianna Hawkins;
(5)
Myisha Hines-Allen;
(6)
Kiara Leslie;
(7)
Emma Meesseman;
(8)
Kim Mestdagh;
(9)
Aerial Powers;
(10)
LaToya Sanders;
(11)
Kristi Toliver; and
(12)
Shatori Walker-Kimbrough;
Whereas Emma Meesseman received the 2019 WNBA Finals Most Valuable Player award;
Whereas Elena Delle Donne received the 2019 WNBA League Most Valuable Player award;
Whereas Natasha Cloud received the 2019 WNBA Dawn Staley Community Leadership award;
Whereas the 2019 Washington Mystics coaching staff includesГўВҖВ”
(1)
Head Coach Mike Thibault;
(2)
Assistant Coach Marianne Stanley; and
(3)
Assistant Coach Eric Thibault;
Whereas Ted Leonsis, founder, chairman, principal partner, and chief executive officer of Monumental Sports & Entertainment, which owns the Washington Mystics, has built a culture of success and contributed greatly to Washington, DC, and the surrounding region through philanthropy;
Whereas the Washington Mystics have exhibited dedication to positive social impact by strengthening communities through the Mystics Care partnership with organizations in Washington, DC, and the surrounding region; and
Whereas the dedication and hard work of the Washington Mystics have inspired and empowered girls, boys, women, and men of all ages: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of RepresentativesГўВҖВ”
(1)
recognizes the Washington Mystics for winning the 2019 WomenГўВҖВҷs National Basketball Association championship;
(2)
applauds the people of Washington, DC, and the surrounding region for their enthusiastic support of the Washington Mystics;
(3)
supports equity in menГўВҖВҷs and womenГўВҖВҷs professional sports; and
(4)
respectfully requests the Clerk of the House of Representatives to transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to the founder, chairman, principal partner, and chief executive officer of Monumental Sports & Entertainment, Ted Leonsis.
