116 HRES 1164 EH: Providing for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 1153) condemning unwanted, unnecessary medical procedures on individuals without their full, informed consent, and providing for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 1154) condemning QAnon and rejecting the conspiracy theories it promotes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2020-10-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
I
116th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1164
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
October 1, 2020
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 1153) condemning unwanted, unnecessary medical procedures on individuals without their full, informed consent, and providing for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 1154) condemning QAnon and rejecting the conspiracy theories it promotes.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. Res. 1153) condemning unwanted, unnecessary medical procedures on individuals without their full, informed consent. The amendment to the resolution printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The resolution, as amended, shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and preamble, as amended, to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. Res. 1154) condemning QAnon and rejecting the conspiracy theories it promotes. The resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
