117 SCON 31 IS: Transparency in Congress Resolution of 2022
U.S. Senate
2022-03-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. CON. RES. 31
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 1, 2022
Mr. Kelly
(for himself and
Mr. Tester
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Requiring all Members of Congress to publish a public schedule.
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Transparency in Congress Resolution of 2022
.
2.
Publication of public schedule
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
disclosure
has the meaning given that term in section 2302(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code;
(2)
the term
Member of Congress
has the meaning given that term in section 2106 of title 5, United States Code, except that such term does not include the Vice President; and
(3)
the term
public schedule
means the public schedule of a Member of Congress required to be published under subsection (b)(1).
(b)
Requirement
(1)
In general
Not later than the last day of each month, each Member of Congress shall publish a public schedule of the Member of Congress for the preceding month that includes the following:
(A)
A daily calendar of—
(i)
each hearing, meeting, or event attended by the Member of Congress during the month, either in person or by teleconference or other electronic means, at which the Member of Congress appears in his or her official capacity; and
(ii)
the floor activity of the Member of Congress during the month.
(B)
For each meeting or event described in subparagraph (A), if known by the Member of Congress—
(i)
a general description of the individuals, entities, or organizations participating in the meeting or event; or
(ii)
a general description of the meeting or event.
(2)
Exclusions
A public schedule is not required to include—
(A)
personal or campaign meetings or events;
(B)
meetings or events with congressional staff; or
(C)
meetings or events at which the Member of Congress is not appearing in an official capacity.
(c)
Information not disclosed
A Member of Congress may determine to not disclose in a public schedule the following information:
(1)
Any information—
(A)
that implicates personal privacy or law enforcement concerns;
(B)
that implicates the personal safety of congressional staff (including the time of the arrival or departure of congressional staff from their duty station); or
(C)
the release or disclosure of which would cause a threat to national security interests or reveal information that is confidential or classified.
(2)
Information related to particularly sensitive meetings, including a meeting with an anonymous or confidential whistleblower.
(d)
Availability
(1)
In general
For each Congress and as required under subsection (b)(1), a Member of Congress shall make each monthly public schedule of the Member of Congress publicly available on the website of the Member of Congress at least until the date that is 30 days after—
(A)
the last day of the Congress; or
(B)
in the case of a Member of Congress whose service as a Member of Congress ends before the last day of the Congress, the last day of such service.
(e)
Ethics implementation and guidance
The Select Committee on Ethics of the Senate and the Committee on Ethics of the House of Representatives—
(1)
shall have authority to implement this resolution with respect to Members of Congress of the applicable House; and
(2)
may issue guidance as needed to implement this resolution.
(f)
Effective date
A Member of Congress shall make available the public schedule of the Member of Congress in accordance with this section for each day on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of adoption of this resolution.
