119 HRES 382 IH: Providing a point of order in the House of Representatives during the 119th Congress against reconciliation measures that reduce benefits under the Medicaid program or the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-05-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 382
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 5, 2025
Mr. Nunn of Iowa
(for himself,
Mr. Bacon
, and
Mr. Van Orden
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Providing a point of order in the House of Representatives during the 119th Congress against reconciliation measures that reduce benefits under the Medicaid program or the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
1.
Point of order on cuts to certain programs in reconciliation measures
(a)
In general
During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this resolution and ending on the last day of the 119th Congress, it shall not be in order in the House of Representatives to consider any reconciliation bill or reconciliation resolution reported pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget agreed to under section 301 or 304 of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, or a joint resolution pursuant to section 258C of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, or any amendment thereto or conference report thereon that—
(1)
reduces enrollment or benefits for any individual described in subsection (b) enrolled in the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act; or
(2)
reduces eligibility or benefits for households with individuals described in such subsection and that participate in the supplemental nutrition assistance program under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.
(b)
Individuals described
An individual described in this subsection is any of the following:
(1)
An individual under the age of 19.
(2)
An individual age 65 or older.
(3)
A pregnant woman.
(4)
An individual with a disability (as that term is defined in section 223(d) of the Social Security Act).
(c)
Exception
The point of order under this section shall not apply to any provision in a reconciliation bill or reconciliation resolution that reduces improper payments, eliminates fraudulent billing, or enhances data verification to ensure eligibility for applicable benefits.
