119 HRES 354 EH: Providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 60) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the National Park Service relating to “Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles”; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 78) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service relating to “Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt”; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 87) providing congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to “California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision”; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 88) providing congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to “California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars II; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision”; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 89) providing congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to “California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; The Omnibus Low NOX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision”; and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-04-29
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 354
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
April 29, 2025
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 60) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the National Park Service relating to
Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles
; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 78) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service relating to
Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt
; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 87) providing congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to
California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision
; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 88) providing congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to
California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars II; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision
; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 89) providing congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to
California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; The
Omnibus
Low NOX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision
; and for other purposes.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House any joint resolution specified in section 2 of this resolution. All points of order against consideration of each such joint resolution are waived. Each such joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in each such joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on each such joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
2.
The joint resolutions referred to in the first section of this resolution are as follows:
(a)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 60) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the National Park Service relating to ‘‘Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles’’.
(b)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 78) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service relating to ‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt’’.
3.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House any joint resolution specified in section 4 of this resolution. All points of order against consideration of each such joint resolution are waived. Each such joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in each such joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on each such joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
4.
The joint resolutions referred to in section 3 of this resolution are as follows:
(a)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 87) providing congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to ‘‘California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision’’.
(b)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 88) providing congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to ‘‘California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars II; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision’’.
(c)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 89) providing congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to ‘‘California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; The ‘Omnibus’ Low NOX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision’’.
5.
Each day during the period from April 29, 2025, through September 30, 2025, shall not constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of rule XIII.
Kevin F. McCumber,
Clerk.
