119 HCON 55 IH: Designating September 2025 as “Gynecologic Cancers Awareness Month”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-10-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 55
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 6, 2025
Mrs. Dingell
(for herself and
Mr. Bacon
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Designating September 2025 as
Gynecologic Cancers Awareness Month
.
Whereas gynecologic cancers include cervical, ovarian, endometrial/uterine, vaginal, and vulvar cancers with the first 3 being the most common;
Whereas there are approximately 118,920 new cases of these cancers diagnosed and approximately 34,630 deaths from gynecologic cancers annually;
Whereas endometrial cancer is 1 of the few cancers with rising incidence and mortality rates;
Whereas endometrial and ovarian cancer rank fifth and sixth in cancer deaths among women, respectively;
Whereas symptoms are often vague or misunderstood, and there are no screening tests to identify endometrial and ovarian cancers before they progress to later stages;
Whereas cervical cancer is the only gynecologic cancer with a reliable screening test and is vaccine-preventable;
Whereas increased awareness of gynecologic cancers can lead to earlier diagnosis, followup with appropriate health professionals, and improved outcomes; and
Whereas the Foundation for Women’s Cancer and other organizations celebrate September 2025 as
Gynecologic Cancers Awareness Month
: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
supports the designation of
Gynecologic Cancers Awareness Month
;
(2)
supports the goals and ideals of
Gynecologic Cancers Awareness Month
;
(3)
recognizes and affirms the commitment of the United States to reducing the burden of these cancers on women by—
(A)
promoting awareness about the causes, risks, and prevention of gynecologic cancers;
(B)
supporting research on gynecologic cancers; and
(C)
taking other steps to improve health outcomes associated with these cancers and reduce associated mortality; and
(4)
encourages every person in the United States to learn about the risk for gynecologic cancers.
