Impeaching Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
That Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States, is impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States of America, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for high crimes and misdemeanors.
Article I: Abuse of Power, Bribery, Hobbs ACT Extortion & Honest Services Fraud
Robert Hunter Biden (Hunter Biden) and James Biden sold access to then Vice President Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., (Joe Biden) while he was in office from 2009 to 2017 and sold promised access to a future Biden Presidential Administration while he was out of office from 2017 to 2021. Hunter and James Biden appear to have promised official actions by Joe Biden in return for payments and business opportunities from foreign and domestic business partners. Joe Biden assisted by making appearances, phone calls, meeting with the business partners, and knowingly allowing his family members to promise access to him and actions by him in furtherance of these schemes.
Hunter Biden threatened business partners that official actions could be taken against them if they did not meet terms or make payments. In at least one instance, Hunter implied that Joe Biden was aware of these threats and willing to assist in enforcing the threats, potentially through official actions. Hunter Biden attempted to enrich himself and the Biden family by threatening official actions from his father, who he claims was willing to assist in these schemes.
These acts are abuses of power as well as the following Federal crimes or conspiracy to commit the following Federal crimes: Bribery of Public Officials,
18 U.S.C. 201
; Hobbs Act Extortion “Under Color of Official Right,”
18 U.S.C. 1951
; Honest Services Fraud relating to use of official position,
18 U.S.C. 1346
.
(1)
According to reports released by the U.S. House of Representatives Oversight and Accountability Committee (Oversight Committee) James Biden promised access to a future Biden Administration and “the highest levels of government” and that his brother Joe Biden had been made aware of his business dealings, which would be made profitable when it could become part of the Biden platform. James Biden would often explain over the phone that Joe Biden was in the room with him, and James Biden had been explaining the deal to him.
(2)
Also, according to reports released by the Oversight Committee, Hunter Biden, James Biden, Hallie Biden, and an unknown “Biden” and their companies collectively received $1.3 million in payments from accounts related to Rob Walker, a Biden family associate. On March 1, 2017, less than two months after Vice President Joe Biden left public office, State Energy HK Limited, a Chinese company, wired $3 million to Rob Walker’s company. The next day, the company wired $1,065,000 to a company associated with James Gilliar, another Biden family associate. Afterwards, the Biden family received approximately $1,065,000 in payments over a 3-month period in different bank accounts. From the bank records, it appears that the Biden family received approximately one-third of the money obtained from wires from China.
(3)
Previously, in a 2011 email, Hunter Biden described his value to Chinese investors as “everything to do with my last name”. In another correspondence with Chinese investors, Hunter said “we should be able to achieve a great deal. Just give me my marching orders”.
(4)
In 2014 Russian oligarch Elena Baturina paid a company connected to Hunter Biden over $3 million. Also in 2014, Elena Baturina attended a dinner with Hunter Biden and Joe Biden in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, DC. Notably, Elana Baturina, one of Russia’s wealthiest individuals, has not been included in the Treasury Department sanctions against many of Russia’s other wealthiest people.
(5)
Additionally, the Biden family received improper payments from Ukrainian energy company Burisma. Hunter Biden received millions of dollars in payments from Burisma from serving on its board. These payments were made entirely based on Hunter Biden’s connections to Joe Biden and promised access to Joe Biden.
(6)
In 2015, then Vice President Joe Biden attended a dinner in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, DC, with Burisma executives and Hunter Biden. At the time, Hunter was receiving over $80,000 a month from Burisma based on no other reason than access to his father.
(7)
Several officials in the Obama Administration specifically flagged these payments from Burisma to Hunter Biden as corrupt. In early 2015, the former Acting Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Kyiv, Ukraine, George Kent, raised concerns to officials in Vice President Joe Biden’s office about the perception of a conflict of interest with respect to Hunter Biden’s role on Burisma’s board. In October 2015, senior State Department official Amos Hochstein raised concerns with Vice President Biden, as well as with Hunter Biden, that Hunter Biden’s position on Burisma’s board enabled Russian disinformation efforts and risked undermining U.S. policy in Ukraine.
(8)
In an August 2023 interview, Devon Archer, a business partner of Hunter Biden, said claims that Joe Biden was not involved in Hunter’s business deals with foreign partners were false.
(9)
In testimony before Congress, Devon Archer admitted that Burisma would have likely gone out of business had it not been for the Biden brand being attached to it. He also testified that Biden was routinely put on conference calls with Hunter Biden’s foreign associates to “sell the brand”.
Article II: Obstruction of Justice
According to testimony from IRS whistleblowers, members of the Biden campaign colluded with Justice Department (DOJ) officials to improperly interfere with investigations into tax crimes alleged to have been committed by Hunter Biden.
These acts constitute an abuse of power as well as Obstruction of Justice,
18 U.S.C. 1505
, 1510, 1512.
(1)
After Joe Biden became the presumptive Democrat Nominee in 2020, career DOJ officials began stalling the Hunter Biden investigations in Delaware. This continued into the Biden Administration.
(2)
DOJ took unusual steps such as removing Hunter Biden’s name from warrants and court filings.
(3)
DOJ refused to pursue search warrants or evidence contained at Joe Biden’s guest house.
(4)
DOJ refused to pursue search warrants in general against Hunter Biden even though legal requirements had been met.
(5)
FBI and IRS agents prepared for interviews with multiple subjects including Hunter Biden on December 8, 2020. These were to be unannounced interviews where the agents showed up and asked questions if the subjects were willing to answer. FBI or DOJ officials tipped off the Biden transition team. As a result, Hunter Biden’s attorney became involved and most of the interviews did not proceed as planned.
(6)
DOJ made decisions relating to formal actions, such as venue and filing charges, and related to internal review processes that were out of the ordinary during the Hunter Biden case. The IRS whistleblower indicated these actions were unlike actions taken in any other case he had worked on. He indicated that these unusual steps all began after Biden became the presumptive 2020 Democrat nominee.
Article III: Fraud
James Biden recruited “investors” for business ventures that ultimately failed. There is evidence to suggest that these investment opportunities were sold to investors based on false and fraudulent pretenses and promises. Access to Joe Biden and indications that Joe Biden supported these schemes were used to lure investors into the schemes.
These acts constitute fraud or conspiracy to commit fraud in violation of
18 U.S.C. 1943
, 1949.
(1)
Specifically, in 2019 an American business, Americore Health, LLC, partnered with James Biden to help lead the company and develop business through his political connections. Americore was in the business of purchasing and improving the efficiency of rural hospitals. James approached various businesses in the medical field around the country to enter into business partnerships with him and/or Americore Health in return for expanding the size and reach of those businesses. According to one witness, James allegedly promised both Americore and investors millions of dollars that he claimed variously to be coming from the Middle East, Russia, or China. However, the business owners were cut out of the deals as James gained knowledge of their operations. James deceived investors and attempted to abscond with proprietary processes to enrich himself by delivering the information to Turkish investors.
(2)
Without the “Biden Brand.” promise of access to Joe Biden, or the appearance of Joe Biden’s support of this venture, James Biden would not have been able to secure investors or business partners for this venture. Joe Biden routinely allowed and actively assisted his family in using his name and the promise of access to him to secure business for the family. Furthermore, Joe Biden mixed and comingled his finances with the rest of his family during this time period and likely financially benefited from this scheme.
Article IV: Financial Involvement in Drug and Prostitution Activities
Joe Biden and Hunter Biden have a long history of comingled and intertwined finances. Between 2010 and 2019 thousands of dollars of Biden family money was spent on illegal drug transactions and prostitution.
These acts constitute violations of or conspiracy to violate federal drug laws at
21 U.S.C. 841
, 842, 843, 846 and federal prostitution laws at
18 U.S.C. 2421
, 2421A, 2422.
(1)
2010 emails between Hunter Biden and business associate Eric Schwerin reference Hunter paying bills on behalf of Joe Biden and managing Joe Biden’s finances.
(2)
2018 texts between Hunter Biden and his daughter referenced Hunter Biden sending half his salary to Joe Biden and paying much of the family’s bills.
(3)
A 2018 text from Hunter Biden references a shared bank account with Joe Biden.
(4)
Hunter Biden routinely received money from and sent money to Joe Biden.
(5)
Both Hunter and Joe Biden had their finances largely managed by business associate Eric Schwerin, who would write checks from one Biden on behalf of the other and routinely intermingled their finances.
(6)
Between November 2018 and March 2019, a Florida student named Anna Dekhtiar received over $274,873 in payments flagged as suspicious activity by a Suspicious Activity Report. The money came from eight senders, including Hunter Biden’s company Owasco, P.C. Additionally, two of the other depositors were women that text messages found on Hunter Biden’s laptop suggest were prostitutes that he hired. Some of these funds were then sent onto “Moreva,” a company that Hunter Biden paid to hire prostitutes.
(7)
Between November 2018 and March 2019, Hunter Biden appears to have spent at least $30,000 dollars on prostitutes.
(8)
In December 2018, Hunter Biden booked train tickets for three prostitutes from Boston to New York where he was staying.
(9)
In 2018 Hunter Biden attempted to write off payments to prostitutes and a sex club as tax deductions.
(10)
In May 2018, Hunter Biden wired a prostitute $25,000. He received a text from an ex-Secret Service agent who he and his father had hired for private security asking about the transaction. The agent alerted Hunter that he was getting calls “from DC” about the transaction and that there was “a link” to his father’s account.
(11)
Hunter Biden has on numerous occasions admitted routine drug use between the years of 2010 and 2018. There are numerous images, videos, and electronic communications that support this claim. His drug use necessitated the routine purchase of large dollar amounts of illegal drugs.
(12)
In a recorded phone call between Hunter Biden and Hallie Biden (his sister-in-law turned lover) drug purchases were discussed and strategized.
(13)
In other electronic communications, previous drug purchases are referenced.
(14)
Given the intermingled finances of Joe Biden and Hunter Biden, Joe Biden financially supported and should have been aware of these drug transactions and prostitutions transactions. Many of these transactions would have occurred using accounts with a nexus to Joe Biden.
In all of this, Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., has undermined the integrity of his office, has brought disrepute on the Presidency, has betrayed his trust as President, and has acted in a manner subversive of the rule of law and justice, to the manifest injury of the people of the United States.
Wherefore, Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., by such conduct, warrants impeachment and trial, and removal from office and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
