Whereas 25-year-old United States Marine Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi served two tours of duty in
Afghanistan;
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi received a meritorious battle promotion to Sergeant while serving in
Afghanistan’s Helmand province with 2nd Battalion, 6th Marine Regiment;
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi is a member of the Individual Ready Reserve and received an
Order to
Muster
letter on May 9 requiring him to report to the 4th Civil Affairs
Group on June 14;
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi was arrested at the United States-Mexican border on March 31, 2014;
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi’s vehicle included three firearms legally registered in his name in the
United States;
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi claims to have crossed into Mexico inadvertently;
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi is still being held in the El Hongo II prison in Tecate, Mexico;
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi alleges that abuse during the beginning of his incarceration and poor
prison conditions led him to attempt suicide;
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi was diagnosed with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) following his
service to the United States Marine Corps in Afghanistan;
Whereas PTSD can result in hyper-vigilance, memory and cognition lapses, and depression;
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi’s reported actions of aggression, escape, and physical self-abuse are
likely manifestations of his PTSD; and
Whereas Sgt. Tahmooressi’s immediate release would allow him to enroll in medical treatment at a
clinic specializing in combat-related PTSD in the United States: Now,
therefore, be it
That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that—
(1)
the Government of Mexico should immediately release United States Marine Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi
and provide for his swift return to the United States so Sgt. Tahmooressi
can receive the appropriate medical assistance for his medical condition;
and
(2)
the President of the United States should utilize the full powers and authorities of his office to
immediately secure the release of United States Marine Sgt. Andrew
Tahmooressi.
