2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5759) to establish a rule of construction clarifying the limitations on executive authority to provide certain forms of immigration relief. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
3.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5781) to provide short-term water supplies to drought-stricken California. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
4.
The chair of the Committee on Armed Services may insert in the Congressional Record at any time during the remainder of the second session of the 113th Congress such material as he may deem explanatory of defense authorization measures for the fiscal year 2015.
5.
The amendment referred to in the first section of this resolution is as follows: Strike section 3096 and insert the following:
3096.
Payments in lieu of taxes
For payments in lieu of taxes under
chapter 69
of title 31, United States Code, which shall be available without further appropriation to the Secretary of the Interior—
(1)
$33,000,000 for fiscal year 2015; and
(2)
$37,000,000 to be available for obligation and payment beginning on October 1, 2015.
Funds available for obligation and payment under paragraph (2) shall be paid in October 2015.
.
Karen L. Haas,
Clerk.
