Executive Order  —Establishing the President's   on  
 
 

On  , I announced the establishment of the President's  . The Administrator of   and   sent letters to high school principals inviting them to participate in this program by establishing local tripartite committees to supervise and direct local Environmental Merit Awards Programs, and to make awards to individual students or groups of students for significant environmental accomplishments by them. These committees were to be composed of students, faculty and interested members of the community.

 , more than 2,500 high schools, including schools in each of the 50  , are actively involved in this program.

In view of this encouraging response, I have concluded that I should establish a national committee to advise me of ways in which this program can be further expanded and enhanced and of other ways in which the environmental accomplishments of individuals and groups may be appropriately recognized.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established the President's   on  . The   shall be composed of a Chairman, to be designated by the President, and such members as the President may, from time to time, appoint.

(b) The   shall advise the President and   on ways in which   can be expanded and enhanced. The   shall select individuals or groups of individuals who deserve special recognition for their local environmental accomplishments and confer appropriate   upon them on behalf of the President. The   shall perform such other related functions as the President may, from time to time, specify.

 . 2. No member of the   shall receive compensation from   by reason of service as a member of the   but such members may be allowed such travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as may be authorized by law.

 . 3.   shall provide, to the extent permitted by law, administrative support for the   and  .

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 
