Executive Order  —  for   Citizens Employed Directly by  , the South-East Asia Treaty Organization, and  
 
 

  now participates in the activities of   ( )), the South-East Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO)), and   (CENTO). The security regulations of these three treaty organizations provide that each participating nation shall be responsible for the security screening and security clearance of its own citizens before they are authorized access to the Organization's TOP SECRET, SECRET, or CONFIDENTIAL information. There is no existing program, however, under which   civilians who are hired directly by these organizations can be screened and cleared for access to such  , SECRET, or CONFIDENTIAL information while so employed. It is, of course, in the interest of   that   citizens who participate in the activities of  ,  , and CENTO as direct hire employees of the civil or military agencies of those organizations be reliable, trustworthy, of good conduct and character, and of complete and unswerving loyalty to  . At the same time, it is a fundamental principle of our Government to protect against unreasonable or unwarranted encroachment on the freedom and privacy of individuals.

I have determined that the provisions and procedures prescribed by this   are necessary to assure the preservation of the integrity of the classified information of  ,  , and  , and to protect the national interest. I have also determined that these provisions and procedures recognize the rights of individuals affected thereby and provide maximum possible safeguards to protect such rights.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as Commander-in-Chief of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of   shall establish a program and, by regulation, shall prescribe such specific requirements, restrictions, and other safeguards as he considers necessary for the administration of procedures whereby "Certificates of Security Clearance" for   citizens directly employed by civil or military agencies of  , SEATO, or CENTO may be provided to these international organizations when they so request. Such program shall also provide for the denial, revocation, or suspension of such "Certificates."

 . 2. Subject to the provisions of applicable international agreements, the procedures established by the Secretary of   shall, insofar as is practical, be similar to those established by him pursuant to the authority vested in him by Executive Order No.   of  , as amended.

 . 3. The substance of the criteria, safeguards, and procedures provided in  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and 9 of Executive Order No.  , as amended, shall be incorporated in the regulations of the Secretary of   governing the program established hereunder.

 . 4. Any authority vested in the Secretary of   by this   may be delegated to the Deputy Secretary of   or an Assistant Secretary of  .

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was released in  ,  
