Executive Order 11574—Administration of Refuse Act Permit Program
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and in furtherance of the purposes and policies of section 13 of the Act of  , c. 425, 30 Stat.   (33 U.S.C. 4077), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C.   et seq.), the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 661-666c), and   of   (42 U.S.C.  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Refuse Act permit program. The executive branch of   shall implement a permit program under the aforesaid section 13 of the Act of   (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") to regulate the discharge of pollutants and other refuse matter into the navigable waters of   or their tributaries and the placing of such matter upon their banks.

 . 2. Responsibilities of Federal agencies. (a) (1) The Secretary shall, after consultation with the Administrator respecting water quality matters, issue and amend, as appropriate, regulations, procedures, and instructions for receiving, processing, and evaluating applications for permits pursuant to the authority of the Act.

(2) The Secretary shall be responsible for granting, denying, conditioning, revoking, or suspending Refuse Act permits. In so doing:

(A) He shall accept findings, determinations, and interpretations which the Administrator shall make respecting applicable water quality standards and compliance with those standards in particular circumstances, including findings, determinations, and interpretations arising from the Administrator's review of   or interstate agency water quality certifications under section 21(b) of   (84 Stat. 108). A permit shall be denied where the certification prescribed by section 21(b) of   has been denied, or where issuance would be inconsistent with any finding, determination, or interpretation of the Administrator pertaining to applicable water quality standards and considerations.

(B) In addition, he shall consider factors, other than water quality, which are prescribed by or may be lawfully considered under the Act or other pertinent laws.

(3) The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of the  , with the Secretary of  , with the Administrator, and with the head of the agency exercising administration over the wildlife resources of any affected  , regarding effects on fish and wildlife which are not reflected in water quality considerations, where the discharge for which a permit is sought impounds, diverts, deepens the channel, or otherwise controls or similarly modifies the stream or body of water into which the discharge is made.

(4) Where appropriate for a particular permit application, the Secretary shall perform such consultations respecting environmental amenities and values, other than those specifically referred to in paragraphs (2) and (3) above, as may be required by   of  .

(b) The Attorney General shall conduct the legal proceedings necessary to enforce the Act and permits issued pursuant to it.

 . 3. Coordination by  . (a)   shall coordinate the regulations, policies, and procedures of Federal agencies with respect to the Refuse Act permit program.

(b)  , after consultation with the Secretary, the Administrator, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Attorney General, shall from time to time or as directed by the President advise the President respecting the implementation of the Refuse Act permit program, including recommendations regarding any measures which should be taken to improve its administration.

 . 4. Definitions. As used in this order, the word "Secretary" means the Secretary of the  , and the word "Administrator" means  .

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: For a statement by the President upon signing the   order, see the preceding item.
