Executive Order  —Establishing the President's   ,  
 

WHEREAS finding ways in which to improve management and efficiency in the executive branch meets a vital and continuing need; and

WHEREAS it is essential that the resources of the executive branch which are devoted to the fulfillment of our international responsibilities and the needs of our citizens be managed and utilized in as effective a manner as possible; and

WHEREAS the best management practices and techniques developed by individual Government agencies and by business and industry should be utilized in all Government agencies whenever applicable; and

WHEREAS there is a need to review the progress of the  's management improvement program and to furnish the President advice thereon; and

WHEREAS it is desirable to give increased attention to the improvement of the management of executive agencies and programs:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of the  . (a) There is hereby established the President's   improvement (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of 10 members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President from among citizens outside the   and who shall serve at the pleasure of the President. The President shall designate one of the members of the   to serve as Chairman.

(c) Each member of the   shall be entitled to receive compensation for   he is engaged on business of the  , and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.   and  ) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

 . 2. Functions of the  . As requested by the President or the Director of  , the   shall, from time to time:

(a) Provide advice and assistance on Government-wide and interagency management problems.

(b) Make systematic appraisals of Government-wide operations to identify opportunities to improve efficiency and cost control.

(c) Carry forward the functions which were vested in the President's   by Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, but without regard to the time limitation contained therein.

(d) Provide for an interchange of ideas with responsible operating officials throughout the executive branch on opportunities for management improvement and appropriate action to achieve such improvement.

(e) Submit reports to the President containing appropriate recommendations for improving the efficiency of Government-wide operations.

 . 3. Assistance by Federal agencies.   Bureau of the  , shall provide staff assistance to the   and, upon request of the Chairman of the  , other executive departments and agencies shall, consistent with law, furnish to the   available information which the   may require in performance of its functions.

 . 4. Saving provision. Nothing in this order shall derogate from the functions or status of the President's   established by the President on  .

 . 5. Prior order. Without prejudice to the provisions of section 2 (c) hereof, the following are hereby revoked:

(1) Executive Order No.   of  , and

(2) Executive Order No.  .

 

 

 

NOTE: For an announcement of the membership of the  , see the following item.
