Executive  —Observance of Holidays by Government Agencies
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Except as provided in section 7, this order shall apply to all executive departments, independent agencies, and Government corporations, including their field services.

 . 2. As used in this order:

(a) Holiday means  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or any other calendar day designated as a holiday by   statute or Executive order.

(b)   means those hours which comprise in sequence the employee's regular daily tour of duty within any 24-hour period, whether falling entirely within one calendar day or not.

 . 3. (a) Any employee whose basic   does not include   and who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday falling within his basic   shall be excused from work on   of his basic   whenever a holiday falls on  .

(b) Any employee whose basic   includes   and who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday falling within his basic   shall be excused from work on   of his basic   whenever a holiday falls on   that has been administratively scheduled as his regular   non-workday in lieu of  .

 . 4. The holiday for a full-time employee for whom the head of a department has established the first 40 hours of duty performed within a period of not more than six days of the administrative   as his basic   because of the impracticability of prescribing a regular schedule of definite hours of duty for each workday, shall be determined as follows:

(a) If a holiday occurs on  , the head of the department shall designate in advance either   or   as the employee's holiday and the employee's basic 40-hour tour of duty shall be deemed to include eight hours on   designated as the employee's holiday.

(b) If a holiday occurs on  , the head of the department shall designate in advance either the   or   as the employee's holiday and the employee's basic 40-hour tour of duty shall be deemed to include eight hours on   designated as the employee's holiday.

(c) If a holiday occurs on any other day of the week, that day shall be the employee's holiday, and the employee's basic 40-hour tour of duty shall be deemed to include eight hours on  .

(d) When a holiday is less than a full day, proportionate credit will be given under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section.

 . 5. Any employee whose workday covers portions of   and who would, except for this section, ordinarily be excused from work scheduled for the hours of any calendar day on which a holiday falls, shall instead be excused from work on his entire workday which commences on any such calendar day.

 . 6. In administering the provisions of law relating to pay and leave of absence, the workdays referred to in sections 3,  , and 5 shall be treated as holidays in lieu of the corresponding calendar holidays.

 . 7. The provisions of this order shall apply to officers and employees of   and   (except that sections 3,  ,  , and 6 shall not apply to  ) until changed by   in accordance with the Postal Reorganization Act.

 . 8. Executive  . 10358 of  , entitled   by Government Agencies, and amendatory Executive Orders No.   of  , and No.   of  , are revoked.

 . 9. This order is effective as of  .

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: For an announcement of the   order, see the preceding item.
