Executive Order  — 
 
 

The proper functioning of Government requires the development of closer working relationships between major Federal grantmaking agencies and   and local government and improved coordination of the categorical grant system.

I have heretofore directed   to:

(1) receive and develop information necessary for assessing national domestic needs and defining national domestic goals, and to develop for the President alternative proposals for reaching those goals;

(2) collaborate with   and others in the determination of national domestic priorities for the allocation of available resources;

(3) collaborate with   and others to assure a continuing review of ongoing programs from the standpoint of their relative contributions to national goals as compared with their use of available resources; and

(4) provide policy advice to the President on domestic issues.

Furthermore, I have assigned to   the responsibility for assisting the President in developing efficient coordinating mechanisms to implement Government activities and to expand interagency cooperation.   I directed that the senior regional officials of certain of the grantmaking agencies convene themselves in regional councils to better coordinate their services to  , and the public.

I have now determined that the measures prescribed by this   would assure improved service to the public.

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.  . (a) There is hereby established a   for each of the ten standard Federal regions. Each   shall be composed of the directors of the regional offices of   Health, Education, and  , and  ,  , and the directors of the regional offices of  ,  , and  . The President shall designate one member of each such   as Chairman of that   and such Chairman shall serve at the pleasure of the President. Representatives of   may participate in any deliberations of each  .

(b) Each member of each   may designate an alternate who shall serve as a member of the   involved whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the  .

(c) When the Chairman determines that matters which significantly affect the interests of Federal agencies which are not represented on any such   are to be considered by that  , he shall invite the regional director or other appropriate representative of the agency involved to participate in the deliberations of the  .

 . 2. Functions of the Councils.   shall be constituted as a body within which the participating agencies will, under the general policy formulation of  , and to the maximum extent feasible, conduct their grantmaking activities in concert through:

(1) the development of short-term regional interagency strategies and mechanisms for program delivery;

(2) the development of integrated program and funding plans with   and local chief executives;

(3) the encouragement of joint and complementary grant applications for related programs;

(4) the expeditious resolution of interagency conflicts and coordination problems;

(5) the evaluation of programs in which two or more member agencies participate;

(6) the development of long-term regional interagency and intergovernmental strategies for resource allocations to better respond to the needs of   and local communities;

(7) the supervision of regional interagency program coordination mechanisms; and

(8) the development of administrative procedures to facilitate day-to-day interagency and intergovernmental cooperation.

 . 3. Under   tor Regional Operations. There is hereby established an "Under Secretaries Group for Regional Operations" which shall be composed of the Under Secretaries of Labor, Health, Education, and  ,  , and  , the Administrator of  , the Deputy Director of  , the Deputy Administrator of  , and the Associate Director of  , who shall serve as the Chairman of the  . When the Chairman determines that matters which significantly affect the interest of   agencies which are not represented on the   are to be considered by the  , he shall invite an appropriate representative of the agency involved to participate in the deliberations of the  .   shall, consistent with the objectives and priorities established by the President and  , establish policy with respect to   matters, provide guidance to the  , respond to their initiatives, and seek to resolve policy issues referred to it by the  .  , under the Chairmanship of the Associate Director of  , shall be responsible for the proper functioning of the system established by this  .

 . 4. Construction. Nothing in this   shall be construed as subjecting any department, establishment, or other instrumentality of the executive branch of   or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such agency or head, to the authority of any other such agency or head or as abrogating, modifying, or restricting any such function in any manner.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 
