Executive Order 11764—Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs
 
 

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of  , 42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-4, prohibits discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in programs and activities receiving Federal financial assistance. The agencies which extend such assistance have primary responsibility for effectuating title  . Although the Attorney General is presently responsible for coordinating enforcement of title  , it is appropriate to clarify and broaden the role of the Attorney General with respect to title   enforcement.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and statutes of  , including section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Attorney General shall coordinate enforcement by Federal departments and agencies of   of  . He shall prescribe standards and procedures regarding implementation of title   and shall assist the departments and agencies in accomplishing effective implementation. He may adopt such rules and regulations and issue such orders as he deems necessary to carry out his functions under this order.

 . 2. (a) Each Federal department and agency shall cooperate with the Attorney General in the performance of his functions under this order and shall furnish him such reports and information as he may request.

(b) Title VI compliance reviews and investigations shall be conducted by the departments and agencies in accord with standards and procedures established by the Attorney General.

(c) Whenever a department or agency ascertains noncompliance or probable noncompliance with title  , steps to obtain compliance by voluntary means or to enforce title   requirements shall be carried out in accord with standards and procedures established by the Attorney General.

 . 3. The authority vested in the President by section 602 of title  , 42 U.S.C. 2000d-1, to approve rules, regulations, and orders of general applicability is hereby delegated to the Attorney General.

 . 4. Executive  .   of  , is hereby superseded.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .
