Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of the  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee").

(b) The President shall preside over meetings of the  . The Vice President shall preside in the absence of the President.

(c) The   shall be composed of the following:

The Vice President Secretary of the  

Secretary of  

Secretary of  

Secretary of  

Director of  Chairman of   to the President

and such other heads of departments and agencies as the President may from time to time designate.

 . 2. Functions of the Committee. The   shall advise and assist the President in the development and coordination of national economic programs and policies and shall perform such other duties as the President may from time to time prescribe. In addition to such duties, the   shall:

(1) Assist the President in the formulation of the basic goals and objectives of national economic policy;

(2) Develop recommendations for the basic strategy of national economic policy to serve as guides for decisions concerning specific economic programs and policies;

(3) Promote the coordination of Federal economic programs;

(4) Consult with individuals from academic, agricultural, business, consumer, labor and other groups to assure the consideration of a wide range of views about national economic policy; and

(5) Recommend procedures for evaluating the effectiveness of Federal programs in contributing to our national economic objectives.

 . 3. Administrative Arrangements. (a) The Chair-man of   will coordinate the work of the  .

(b) In compliance with provisions of applicable law, and as necessary to effectuate the purposes of this order, (1)   shall provide or arrange for supporting clerical administrative and other staff services for the   and (2) each   and agency which is represented on the   shall furnish the   such information and other assistance as may be available.

 . 4. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any department, establishment, or other instrumentality of the executive branch of   or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such agency or head, to the authority of any other such agency or head or as abrogating, modifying, or restricting any such function in any manner.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 

NOTE: As printed above, this item follows the text of   press release.
