Executive Order  — 
 
 

The menace of drug abuse threatens to sap our  's strength and destroy our  's character. It must be combatted in a variety of ways—through international measures, through domestic law enforcement, through programs dealing with prevention, education, treatment and rehabilitation. As one critical part of this balanced and comprehensive program, we must now give special emphasis to improving law enforcement activities at all levels of government.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including section 5317 of Title 5 of the United States Code, as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) The Attorney General of   shall provide for the establishment within   of  ."

(b) This Office shall be headed by a Director who shall have the title of Special Assistant Attorney General.

(c) The Director shall also serve as a Special Consultant to the President for Drug Abuse Law Enforcement. He shall advise the President with respect to all matters relating to the more effective enforcement by all Federal agencies of laws relating to illegal drug traffic and on methods by which   can assist   and local governments in strengthening the enforcement of their laws relating to illegal drug traffic. He shall, as appropriate, recommend to the President plans, programs, legislation, techniques, and other measures designed to maximize at every level of government the  's campaign to stamp out illegal drug traffic through effective law enforcement.

(d) The Director shall be responsible for the development and implementation of a concentrated program throughout   for the enforcement of Federal laws relating to the prevention of drug abuse and for cooperation with   and local governments in the enforcement of their drug abuse laws. The Attorney General is called upon to delegate to the Director those duties and authorities vested in him as are necessary to carry out those functions.

 . 2. The Director shall consult with the Director of   and those officials shall ensure that all steps permitted by law are being taken by  , and local governments and, to the extent feasible, by private persons and organizations, to prevent drug abuse in this   and elsewhere.

 . 3. Section 1 of Executive Order No. 11248 of  , as amended, is further amended by deleting "(12) Chairman,  ," and by inserting in lieu thereof "(12) Director,  ."

 . 4. Each department and agency of   shall, upon request and to the extent permitted by law, assist the Director of   in the performance of functions assigned to him by or pursuant to this order, and the Director may, in carrying out those functions, utilize the services of any other agencies,  , as may be available and appropriate.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 

NOTE: For a statement by the President on signing Executive Order   see the preceding item.
