Executive Order  —Providing for Pay Adjustments for  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including the Economic Stabilization Act of   (Public Law 91-379, 84 Stat. 799), as amended by the Economic Stabilization Act Amendments of   (Public Law 92-210, 85 Stat. 743), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The head of each executive agency or military department authorized to fix by administrative action the rate of basic pay for a position or employee under subchapter IV of chapter 53 of title 5 of the United States Code, shall fix any such rate in accordance with instructions issued by   (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) under the authority of this order.

 . 2. (a) The   is hereby authorized and directed to issue to the heads of executive agencies and military departments instructions on the fixing of rates of basic pay for positions and employees covered by section 1 of this order.

(b) In issuing instructions under this order, the   shall maintain consistency in each pay schedule adjustment with the fiscal and economic policies of  , including the policies and pay increase guidelines issued by   established under Executive Order No. 11627 of  . No pay schedule adjustment shall exceed such guidelines, except where (i) a tandem relationship exists between a Federal pay schedule for a specialized employee unit and pay increases granted in a specialized activity in the private sector, (ii)   has permitted a pay increase for the specialized activity in the private sector which is in excess of the guidelines, and (iii) it is determined that a comparable increase is essential to the continued operation of the   service concerned.

 . 3. The instructions issued by the   under this order may (i) prescribe definitions of the terms used herein, (ii) redelegate to the head of an executive agency or military department any of the  's authority under this order, and (iii) contain such other provisions as the   determines to be necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order.

 . 4. (a) The   may, in administering this order, utilize such services of other executive agencies and military departments as may be available and appropriate.

(b) On request of the  , an executive agency or military department is authorized and directed, consistent with law, to furnish the   with information which the   may require in carrying out its responsibilities under this order.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 

NOTE: For a statement by the President on the pay increase, see page 47 of this issue.
