Executive Order  —Establishment of  
 
 

WHEREAS   (79 Stat. 244,   U.S.C.   et seq.) provides for the establishment of river basin water and related land resources commissions; and

WHEREAS the Governors of the States of the Ohio River drainage basin, excluding the Tennessee River drainage basin, and   have requested, or concurred in, the establishment of such a commission:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 201 of   (   ), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.  . It is hereby declared that   is established under the provisions of Title II of   (    et seq.).

 . 2. Jurisdiction of the Commission. It is hereby determined that the jurisdiction of the Ohio River Basin Commission referred to in section 1 of this order shall extend to those portions of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   and   that are located within the Ohio River drainage basin, excluding the Tennessee River drainage basin.

 . 3. Membership of the Commission. It is hereby determined that, in accordance with section 202 of the Act (42 U.S.C.  ), the   shall consist of the following members:

(1) a Chairman to be appointed by the President,

(2) one member from each of the following   departments and agencies:  ,    , and  ,  ,  , and  , such member to be appointed by the head of the department or independent agency he represents,

(3) one member from each of the following  :  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , and a member from   when authorized by the legislature of that  , and

(4) one member from each interstate agency created by an interstate compact to which the consent of   has been given and whose jurisdiction extends to the waters of the area specified in section 2.

 . 4. Functions, Powers, and Duties. The   and its officers, members, and employees shall perform and exercise, with respect to the area specified in section 2 of this order, their respective functions, powers, and duties as set out in Title II of  .

 . 5. Reporting to the President. The Chairman of the   shall report to the President through  .

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: The Executive order was released in  ,  
