Executive Order  — 
 

In a message to  , I stated that "One of the most serious challenges to human destiny in   will be the growth of the population. Whether man's response to that challenge will be a cause for pride or for despair in   will depend very much on what we do  . If we now begin our work in an appropriate manner, and if we continue to devote a considerable amount of attention and energy to this problem, then mankind will be able to surmount this challenge as it has surmounted so many during the long march of civilization".

 , by a resolution approved at its twenty-fifth session, has designated   as World Population Year. This action was designed to focus international attention on various aspects of the population problem and to encourage appropriate and relevant cooperative activity in this field. In the same resolution,   called upon member states and international organizations to participate fully in the World Population Year and to devote   to appropriate efforts and undertakings concerning the population question. The Secretary General of   has called upon member states to begin preparatory work immediately.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established  .

(b) The   shall consist of not more than twenty members to be appointed by the President from among citizens in private life. The President shall designate the Chairman and two Vice Chairmen of the   from among its members.

(c) The members shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ).

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The   shall promote the appropriate observance in   of   as World Population Year. To this end, the   shall seek to create within   a better understanding of the causes, nature, scope, and consequences of the problem of population growth, both national and international, and the relationship of this problem to the quality of human life.

(b) The   shall keep itself informed of activities undertaken or planned by various organizations and groups in   in observance of the Year and shall seek to consult with such groups and to stimulate such activities.

(c) The   shall hold meetings, public or private, at such times and places as the Chairman shall determine. It may assemble and disseminate information, issue reports and other publications, and conduct such other activities as it may deem appropriate to provide for the effective participation of   in the observance of World Population Year.

(d) The   may establish such subcommittees or working groups, the membership of which may include persons not members of the  , as it may deem necessary for the fulfillment of its tasks.

(e) The   shall conclude its work by   and shall make a report to the President on its work within   thereafter, at which time the   shall be deemed to be terminated.

 . 3. Assistance and Cooperation. (a) The   is authorized to request any agency of the executive branch of the   to furnish the   with such information and advice and services as may be useful to it for the fulfillment of its functions under this  . Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information, advice, and services to the   upon request of the Chairman or Executive Secretary of the  .

(b) Subject to the availability of funds, the   may procure the temporary services of experts to assist it in its work, in accordance with the provisions of section 3109 of title 5 of the United States Code.

(c)   and of Health, Education, and   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with administrative services, facilities, and funds necessary for its activities.   shall provide an   Secretary for the  .

(d) The Secretaries of State and Health, Education, and   shall participate with the   in order that activities which may be undertaken by the executive branch of   in observance of World Population Year and those undertaken by the   may be properly coordinated.

(e) The President of the   and the Speaker of   shall be invited to designate two Members of each   to participate with the   in order that activities which may be undertaken by the   in observance of World Population Year and those undertaken by the   may be properly coordinated.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .
