Executive Order  —Employment of   by   and Subcontractors
 
 

On  , I issued Executive Order No.   to facilitate the employment of returning veterans by requiring Federal agencies and Federal contractors and their subcontractors to list employment openings with the employment service systems. Section 503 of the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of   (Public Law 92-540; 86 Stat.  ) added a new section   to Title 38 of the United States Code which, in effect, provides statutory authority to extend the program developed under that order with respect to Government contractors and their subcontractors.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of   shall issue rules and regulations requiring each department and agency of the executive branch of   to list suitable employment openings with the appropriate office of   or  . This section shall not be construed as requiring the employment of individuals referred by such office or as superseding any requirements of  . Rules, regulations, and orders to implement this section shall be developed in consultation with  .

 . 2. The Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the authority of the President under Section 2012 of Title 38 of the United States Code.

 . 3. The Secretary of   shall gather information on the effectiveness of the program established under this order and Section 2012 of Title 38 of the United States Code and of the extent to which the employment service system is fulfilling the employment needs of veterans. The Secretary of   shall, from time to time, report to the President concerning his evaluation of the effectiveness of this order along with his recommendations for further action which the Secretary believes to be appropriate.

 . 4. Appropriate departments and agencies shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , issue such amendments or additions to procurement rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order and Section 2012 of Title 38 of the United States Code. Except as otherwise provided by law, all executive departments and agencies are directed to cooperate with the Secretary of  , to furnish the Secretary of   with such information and assistance as he may require in the performance of his functions under this order, and to comply with rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary.

 . 5. Executive  . 11598 of June 16,  , is hereby superseded.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .
