Executive Order 11676—Providing for the Establishment of an   Within  
 
 

This Administration is determined to eradicate the menace of drug abuse in  . Many steps have already been taken toward that end, including measures to restrict the flow of narcotics from abroad, to strengthen domestic law enforcement activities, to initiate programs for drug abuse prevention, education, treatment, and rehabilitation. I have now determined that a   is a necessary next step in our campaign against illegal drug traffic, and that that system should be developed and maintained by a new office of   within  .

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including section 5317 of Title 5 of the United States Code, as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) The Attorney General of   shall provide for the establishment within   of  ." This Office shall be headed by a Director.

(b) The Director shall be responsible for the development and maintenance of a National Narcotics Intelligence System. In developing that system, the Director shall call upon other agencies of the   to provide him with information, and such agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Director with all information that is pertinent to the development and maintenance of a National Narcotics Intelligence System. The Director shall also call upon   and local agencies to provide him with such information.

(c) The Director shall be authorized to provide narcotics intelligence to any  , or local official that the Director determines has a legitimate official need to have access to such intelligence. These functions shall be performed under the general supervision and direction of the Attorney General, and the Attorney General shall delegate to the Director such authority as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order.

 . 2. The Director shall cooperate with the Director of   in order to assist him in ensuring that all steps permitted by law are being taken by  , and local governments and, to the extent feasible, by private persons and organizations, to prevent drug abuse in  .

 . 3. Section 1 of Executive Order No. 11248 of  , as amended, is further amended by deleting "(13) Chairman,  ," and by inserting in lieu thereof " (13) Director,  ."

 . 4. Each department and agency of   shall, upon request and to the extent permitted by law, assist the Director of   in the performance of functions assigned to him by or pursuant to this order, and the Director may, in carrying out those functions, utilize the services of any other agencies,  , as may be available and appropriate.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 

NOTE:   announced that the President was transmitting to the   a request for a supplemental appropriation of $135.2 million to deal with the problem of drug abuse, including funds for  .
