Executive Order  —Continuing the Regulation of Exports
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in the President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including section 5 (b) of the act of  , as amended (12 U.S.C. 95a), and in view of the continued existence of the national emergencies declared by Proclamation No. 2914 of  , and Proclamation No. 4074 of  , and the importance of continuing (a) to exercise the necessary vigilance over exports from the standpoint of their significance to the national security of  ; (b) to further significantly the foreign policy of   and to aid in fulfilling its international responsibilities; and (c) to protect the domestic economy from the excessive drain of scarce materials and reduce the serious inflationary impact of abnormal foreign demand, it is hereby ordered:

SECTION 1. Notwithstanding the expiration of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended, the provisions for administration of that act contained in Executive Order   as continued in effect by Executive Order  , shall continue in full force and effect and shall authorize the exercise and administration of export controls, under the authority vested in me as President of   by section 5 (b) of the act of  , as amended (12 U.S.C. 95a).

 . 2. Except to the extent another basis is provided in the second sentence of section 3 of this order, all rules and regulations issued by the Secretary of  , published in title 15, chapter III, subchapter B of the Code of Federal Regulations, parts 368 to 399 inclusive, and all orders, regulations, licenses and other forms of administrative action issued or taken pursuant thereto, shall until amended or revoked by the Secretary of  , remain in full force and effect, the same as if issued or taken pursuant to this order, except that the maximum fine which may be imposed under part 387.1(a) (1) shall not exceed $10,000 and that the civil penalty provided for under part 387.1 (b) (3) will not be applicable to any violation of the regulations under this order.

 . 3. The delegations of authority in this order shall not affect the authority of any agency or official pursuant to any other delegation of Presidential authority, presently in effect or hereafter made, under section 5 (b) of the act of  , as amended. Those regulations issued under the Export Control Act of  , as amended, to implement foreign policy set forth in Executive  .   of     of July 29,  , shall until amended or revoked by the Secretary of   continue to apply as regulations issued under such orders.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .
