Executive Order  —Further Providing for the Stabilization of the Economy
 
 

On  , I ordered a freeze for a maximum period of   on the prices of all commodities and services offered for sale except the prices charged for raw agricultural products. At that time, I stated that the freeze period would be used to develop a new and more effective system of controls to follow the freeze. Planning for the   program has proceeded rapidly and I have, therefore, decided that the freeze on food, except for beef, should be removed and more flexible controls substituted in a two-stage process in the food industry. The first stage will be effective at 4: 00 p.m.,  ,  . The freeze in other sectors of the economy will continue through  . I am also directing   to publish for comment now, proposed plans for   controls in other sectors of the economy. I have determined that this action is necessary to stabilize the economy, reduce inflation, minimize unemployment, improve the  's competitive position in world trade and protect the purchasing power of the dollar, all in the context of sound fiscal management and effective monetary policies.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , particularly the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Executive Order   establishing a freeze on prices effective 9: 00 p.m.,  ,  , for a maximum period of   is hereby superseded except as hereinafter provided. Under the provisions of Executive Order  , the freeze regulations issued by  , pursuant to the authority of Executive Order   remain in effect except as the Chairman of   may modify them. The price freeze established by Executive Order   remains in effect until 11: 59 p.m.,  ,  , except to the extent the Chairman of   may modify it.

 . 2. All orders, regulations, circulars, rulings, notices or other directives issued and all other actions taken by any agency pursuant to Executive Order  , and in effect on the date of this order are hereby confirmed and ratified, and shall remain in full force and effect unless or until altered, amended, or revoked by the Chairman of  .

 . 3. This order shall not operate to defeat any suit, action, prosecution, or administrative proceeding, whether heretofore or hereafter commenced, with respect to any right possessed, liability incurred, or offense committed prior to this date.

 . 4. Executive Order 11695 continues to remain in full force and effect.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .

NOTE: For a statement by the President, see the preceding item.
