Executive Order  —Establishing   for the Observance of the Twenty-Fifth Anniversary of  
 
 

WHEREAS     completes its   of existence; and

WHEREAS support of   and its principles and purposes as set forth in the Charter has been held by every Administration to be fundamental to   policy; and

WHEREAS the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of   is an occasion not only for commemoration but also for a searching reappraisal of the potential of   to promote international peace and stability in conditions of justice and progress, and the consideration of measures to make it more effective; and

WHEREAS   has invited all Member States to take note of the observance of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary and to formulate such plans and programs as seem to them appropriate for promoting its objectives:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established   for the Observance of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of not more than forty-five members, as follows: (1) not more than thirty-seven members who shall be appointed by the President from public or private life, (2) four persons who are members of the   and are hereafter designated as members of the   by the President, and (3) four persons who are members of   and are hereafter designated as members of the   by the President. The President shall designate the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman from among the members of the  .

(c) No member of the   shall receive compensation from   by reason of service as a member of the  , but such members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as may be authorized by law.

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) In consultation with the Secretary of  , the   shall identify matters of overriding importance to the effectiveness of   and of   participation therein; suggest new initiatives which would be particularly appropriate in  ; study available opinion and background on these questions, both official and public; and prepare for the President recommendations to assist him in his determination of   policy toward  . The  's initial recommendations to the President on these subjects shall be submitted in an interim report by  .

(b) The   shall, under the leadership of the Secretary of  , consult as appropriate. with   agencies and bodies, and with private organizations, to promote the effective observance in   of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of  .

(c) The   shall endeavor to convey to the   people a balanced and realistic understanding of   family of agencies, its activities, their beneficial potential for   and the rest of the world, and the prospects for progressive realization of this potential.

(d) Taking into account the actions taken at the Twenty-fifth   the   shall prepare a final report on its conclusions and recommendations and submit it to the President not   April  . The   shall terminate on the date of the submission of its final report.

 . 3. Assistance and Cooperation. (a)   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide the   with necessary administrative services, staff support, and facilities.

(b) The   is authorized to request any agency of   of the Government to furnish the   such assistance, information, and advice as may be useful to it for the fulfillment of its functions under this order. Each agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such assistance, information, and advice to the   upon request of the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the  .

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: For an announcement of the establishment and membership of the  , see the preceding item.
