Executive Order 11725—Transfer of Certain Functions of  
 
 

Under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958, Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1973, the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  , et seq.),   of  , as amended, (42 U.S.C.  , et seq.), and Section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of   is designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:

(1) All authority vested in the President by   of  , as amended, and assigned or delegated to the Director of   Preparedness by Executive Order No. 11575 of  , as amended by Executive Order No.  .

(2) All authority which was vested in  , or the Director thereof, by   of  , as amended, and which was transferred to the President by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1973.

(3) All authority which was vested in the Director of   with respect to determining whether a major disaster has occurred within the meaning of (A) section 16 of the act of  , as amended, (20 U.S.C. 646), (B) section 7 of the act of  , as amended (20 U.S.C. 241-1), and (C) section 762(a) of the Higher Education Act of   as added by section 161(a) of   of  , Public Law 92-318, 86 Stat. 288 at 299 (relating to the furnishing by   of disaster relief assistance for educational purposes), and which was transferred to the President by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1973.

(4) All authority vested in   or the Director thereof, including serving as Chairman of  , by Executive Order No.   of  .

(5) All authority vested in the Director of   Preparedness by Executive Order No.   of  , relating to the administration of certain temporary disaster relief provisions, and

(6) All other incidental authority relating to matters described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this section that has been vested in   or the Director thereof by the President by Executive order, proclamation, letter, memorandum, or other form of directive, or otherwise.

 . 2. The Secretary of the   is designated and empowered to exercise, without approval, ratification, or other action of the President, all authority which was vested in the Director of   by section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and which was transferred to the President by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1973.

 . 3. All authority vested in the Director of the Office, of Emergency Preparedness as of  , by Executive order, proclamation, or other directive issued by or on behalf of the President or otherwise, other than that specified in section 1 (relating to disaster relief), and section 2 (relating to import investigations) of this order, is hereby transferred to   who shall exercise such authority in conformance with such guidance as may be provided by   and, with respect to the economic and disposal aspects of stockpiling of strategic and critical materials by  . Those functions include, but are not limited to functions under

(1) Executive Order No.   of  , relating to employment of certain part-time and temporary advisory personnel under   of  ;

(2) Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, relating to the designation of critical defense housing areas pursuant to section 101 of   of  , 42  ;

(3) Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, relating to the protection of facilities important to the national security;

(4) Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, relating to the administration of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended;

(5) Executive Order No.   of  , relating to the liquidation of   created under the Defense Production Act of   as amended;

(6) Executive Order No. 10601 of   (section 3), relating to the designation of strategic materials to be acquired in return for surplus agricultural commodities (Supplemental Stockpile);

(7) Executive Order No.   of  , relating to loans under the Defense Production Act of   with respect to defense facilities damaged by a major disaster;

(8) Executive Order No. 10705 of  , relating to the radio stations during time of war (see Executive Order No.   of September 4,  );

(9) Executive Order No.   of  , relating to  ;

(10) Executive Order No.  , relating to civil defense functions;

(11) Executive Order No.   of  , relating to civil defense functions;

(12) Executive Order No.   of  , (except sections 404(a) and 405), relating to nonmilitary emergency preparedness planning, particularly under the National Security Act of  , as amended, and related functions under the Defense Production Act of  , the Strategic and Critical Materials Stockpiling Act,   and  ;

(13) Executive Order No.   of  , relating to  ;

(14) Executive Order No.  , relating to  ;

(15) Executive Order No.   of  , relating to the assignment of emergency preparedness functions to Federal departments and agencies;

(16) Executive Order No.   of September 4,  , relating to telecommunications contingency planning;

(17) Section 203 (n) of   of  , as amended (40 U.S.C. 484(n)), relating to the disposal of surplus property;

(18) All other incidental authority relating to matters described in paragraphs (1) through (17) of this section that has been vested in   or the Director thereof by the President by Executive order, proclamation, letter, memorandum, or other form of directive, or otherwise.

 . 4. All rules, regulations, orders, determinations, permits, contracts, certifications, licenses, and privileges (including all delegations of authority and delegations of authority to redelegate) which have been issued, made, granted, or allowed to become effective by the President, the Director of  , or   or any official thereof, in the performance of functions which are transferred by this order and which are in effect at the time this order takes effect, shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or revoked by the President, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , or  , as the case may be, or other authorized officials, or by operation of law.

 . 5. Pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 703 of the Defense Production Act of   as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  ), the Administrator is authorized to establish a subordinate agency within   to perform such of the functions under the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, as have been delegated to him under this order or any other Executive order, as the Administrator deems appropriate. The Administrator is authorized to appoint a head of that agency who shall be compensated at the rate now or hereafter established for level V of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C.  ). That agency and its head shall perform such functions, in addition to functions under the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, as the Administrator may, from time to time, prescribe.

 . 6. (a) The transfer of functions accomplished by this   order shall in no way be deemed to diminish the need for, or the scope or priority of, the performance of those functions.

(b) All   executive departments and agencies are directed to cooperate fully with officials exercising authorities transferred under this order.

 . 7. Sections 404 (a) and 405 of Executive Order No.  , as amended, are hereby revoked.

 . 8. This order shall be effective as of  .

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .

NOTE: The text of the   order was released at  ,  
