Executive Order 11586—Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   (62 Stat. 604, as amended),

I hereby prescribe the following amendments of   prescribed by Executive Orders  ;   of  ;  ;   of  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ; and constituting portions of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:

 . 1. Part  ,  , is amended as follows:

(a) Section 1632.1 Order to Report for Induction— is amended as follows:

The text of Section 1632.1 is redesignated as paragraph (a) thereof and new paragraphs (b) and (c) are added to Section 1632.1 to read as follows:

"(b) Any registrant who has been issued an Order to Report for Induction (SSS Form 252) and who is distant from his local board of origin, which issued the  , must report at the time and place specified therein, unless he voluntarily submits to processing for induction at any   Entrance Station and is actually inducted into   or found to be not qualified for induction into   on or before the third day prior to   that he was required to report in accordance with the Order to Report for Induction (SSS Form 252).

"(c) If the registrant is inducted or if the registrant is found not qualified for induction pursuant to paragraph (b) hereof,   Entrance Station shall inform the local board which issued the Order to Report for Induction (SSS Form 252) of such event, and in either such event the registrant shall not be required to comply with the said  ."

(b) Section 1632.5 Preparing Records for a Group Ordered to Report for Induction—is amended by striking the letter designation "(a)" and all of paragraph (b).

(c) Section 1632.9 Certain Registrants May Request Transfer for Induction—is rescinded.

(d) Section 1632.10 Transfer for Induction Directed by Director of  —paragraph (c) is amended by substituting the words "such other action as prescribed by the Director" for the words "the other actions provided for in paragraphs (h) and (i) of Section 1632.9".

(e) Section 1632.14 Duty of Registrant to Report for and Submit to Induction—is amended as follows:

(1) Paragraph (a) is amended as follows: in the first sentence thereof the words "or an Order for Transferred Man to Report for Induction (SSS Form 253)" are deleted and in the last sentence thereof the words "and to each local board whose area he enters or in whose area he remains" are deleted.

(2) Paragraph (b) is amended by substituting the words "Upon reporting for his scheduled induction as ordered by his local board" for the words "Upon reporting for induction".

(f) Section 1632.15 Forwarding Registrants for Induction—paragraph (e) is amended by inserting after the word "group" in the first sentence the following words: "who are reporting for scheduled inductions as ordered by their local boards".

(g) Section 1632.20 Records Returned to  —paragraph (b) is amended by substituting the word "section" for the words "section 1632.9 and" in the first sentence thereof.

 . 2. Section 1642.15 Continuous Duty of Certain Registrants to Report for Induction—is amended by deleting the words "or pursuant to an Order for Transferred Man to Report for Induction (SSS Form 253)" and the words ", and to each local board, whose area he enters or in whose area he remains".

RICHARD NIXON

 

 
