Executive Order  —Establishment of the Missouri River Basin Commission
 
 

  (79 Stat. 244; 42 U.S.C.   et seq.) provides for the establishment of river basin water and related land resources commissions. In conformity with the requirements of that act a majority of the Governors of the States of the Missouri River drainage basin, as defined in Section 2 of this order, and   have requested, or concurred in, the establishment of such a  .

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 201 of the Water Resources Planning Act (   ), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.  . It is hereby declared that the Missouri River Basin Commission is established under the provisions of Title II of   (    et seq.).

 . 2. Jurisdiction of the Commission. It is hereby determined that the jurisdiction of the Missouri River Basin Commission referred to in Section 1 of this order shall extend to   and those portions of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   that are located within the Missouri River drainage basin, defined as the drainage basin of the Missouri River above a point immediately below the mouth of the Gasconade River.

 . 3. Membership of the Commission. It is hereby determined that, in accordance with Section 202 of the Act (42 U.S.C.  ), the   shall consist of the following members:

(1) a Chairman to be appointed by the President,

(2) one member from each of the following   departments and agencies:  ;  ;  ;  , and  ;  ;    ;  ;  ; and  ; such member to be appointed by the head of the department or independent agency he represents.

(3) one member from each of the following  :  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(4) one member from each interstate agency created by an interstate compact to which the consent of the   has been given and whose jurisdiction extends to the waters of the area specified in Section 2.

 . 4. Functions, Powers, and Duties. The   and its officers, members, and employees shall perform and exercise, with respect to the area specified in Section 2 of this order, their respective functions, powers, and duties as set out in Title II of  .

 . 5.  . The Chairman of the   is hereby authorized and directed to refer to   any matters under consideration by the   which relate to areas of interest or jurisdiction of  ,   and  . The   shall consult on these matters as appropriate with   and   through its   for the purpose of enhancing international coordination.

 . 6. Reporting to the President. The Chairman of the   shall report to the President through  .

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 
