Executive Order  —  Members and Units of  
 
 

WHEREAS certain employees of   are engaged in an unlawful work stoppage which has prevented the delivery of the mails and the discharge of other postal functions in various parts of  ; and

WHEREAS the laws of  , including Sections  , and 6101 of Title 39, United States Code require that the business of  , including the expeditious processing and delivery of the mail, be regularly carried on; and

WHEREAS the aforesaid unlawful work stoppage has prevented and is preventing the execution of the aforesaid laws relating to  ; and

WHEREAS the breakdown of the postal service in the numerous areas affected by the said unlawful work stoppage is a matter of grave national concern; and

WHEREAS I am charged by the Constitution of the United States to take care that the laws be faithfully executed, and I have determined that I am unable solely with the regular forces to cause the aforesaid laws to be executed:

Now, THEREFORE, I, RICHARD NIXON, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including   and 8500 of Title 10 of the United States Code and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, do hereby order as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of   is authorized and directed to take all appropriate steps to respond to requests of   for assistance in restoring and maintaining   service and to execute the   laws of  .

 . 2. In furtherance of the authorization and direction contained in section 1 hereof, the Secretary of   is authorized to use such of   as he may deem necessary.

 . 3. I hereby authorize and direct the Secretary of   to call into the active military service of  , as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order, any or all of the units of   and of   that he deems appropriate to serve in the active military service of   for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders. In carrying out the provisions of this order, the Secretary of   is authorized to use the units, and members thereof, of   and of   called into the active military service of   pursuant to this section.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to delegate within   any of the authority conferred upon him by this   order.

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: For the President's remarks in a television and radio address on the postal work stoppage and the text of Proclamation 3972, declaring a national emergency, see the preceding two items.
