Executive Order  —Providing for the Issuance and Signature by the Secretary of   From Justice Extradited to  
 
 

WHEREAS the President of  , under section 3192 of Title 18, United States Code, has been granted the power to take all necessary measures for the transportation, safekeeping and security against lawless violence of any person delivered by any foreign government to an agent of   for return to   for trial for any offense of which he is duly accused; and

WHEREAS fugitives from justice in   whose extradition from abroad has been requested by   and granted by a foreign government are to be returned in the custody of duly appointed agents in accordance with the provisions of section 3193 of Title 18, United States Code; and

WHEREAS such duly appointed agents under the provisions of the law mentioned above, being authorized to receive delivery of the fugitive in behalf of   and to convey him to the place of his trial, are given the powers of a marshal of   in the several districts of   through which it may be necessary for them to pass with such prisoner, so far as such power is requisite for the prisoner's safekeeping; and

WHEREAS such warrants serve as a certification to the foreign government delivering the fugitives to any other foreign country through which such agents may pass, and to authorities in   of the powers therein conferred upon the agents; and

WHEREAS it is desirable by delegation of functions heretofore performed by the President to simplify and thereby expedite the issuance of such warrants to agents in the interests of the prompt return of fugitives to  :

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered to issue and sign all warrants appointing agents to receive, in behalf of  , the delivery in extradition by a foreign government of any person accused of a crime committed within  , and to convey such person to the place of his trial.

 . 2. Agents appointed in accordance with section 1 of this order shall have all the powers conferred in respect of such agents by applicable treaties of   and by section 3193 of Title 18, United States Code, or by any other provisions of   law.

 . 3. Executive  .  ,  , as amended by Executive Order No.  ,  , is further amended by deleting numbered paragraph 4 and renumbering paragraphs 5 and 6 as paragraphs 4 and  , respectively.

RICHARD NIXON

 

 NOTE: Executive Order   was not issued in the form of a   press release.
