Executive Order  —Establishing   and the Citizens' Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

PART  

SECTION 101.

Establishment of the  .

(a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as "the  .").

(b) The President of   shall preside over meetings of the  . The Vice President shall preside in the absence of the President.

(c) The   shall be composed of the following members:

The Vice President of  

Secretary of  

Secretary of  

Secretary of    

Secretary of  

Secretary of the  

Secretary of  

and such other heads of departments and agencies and others as the President may from time to time direct.

(d) Each member of the   may designate an alternate, who shall serve as a member of the   whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the  .

(e) When matters which affect the interests of Federal agencies the heads of which are not members of the   are to be considered by the  , the President or his representative may invite such agency heads or their alternates to participate in the deliberations of the  .

(f) The Director of  , the Chairman of  , and the Executive Secretary of   or their representatives may participate in the deliberations of   as observers.

(g) The Science Adviser to the President shall be the Executive Secretary of the   and shall assist the President in directing the affairs of the  .

 . 102.

Functions of the  .

(a) The   shall advise and assist the President with respect to environmental quality matters and shall perform such other related duties as the President may from time to time prescribe. In addition thereto, the   is directed to:

(1) Recommend measures to ensure that Federal policies and programs, including those for development and conservation of natural resources, take adequate account of environmental effects.

(2) Review the adequacy of existing systems for monitoring and predicting environmental changes so as to achieve effective coverage and efficient use of facilities and other resources.

(3) Foster cooperation between  ,   and local governments, and private organizations in environmental programs.

(4) Seek advancement of scientific knowledge of changes in the environment and encourage the development of technology to prevent or minimize adverse effects that endanger man's health and well-being.

(5) Stimulate public and private participation in programs and activities to protect against pollution of the  's air, water, and land and its living resources.

(6) Encourage timely public disclosure by all levels of government and by private parties of plans that would affect the quality of environment.

(7) Assure assessment of new and changing technologies for their potential effects on the environment.

(8) Facilitate coordination among departments and agencies of   in protecting and improving the environment.

(b) The   shall review plans and actions of Federal agencies affecting outdoor recreation and natural beauty. The   may conduct studies and make recommendations to the President on matters of policy in the fields of outdoor recreation and natural beauty. In carrying out the foregoing provisions of this subsection, the   shall, as far as may be practical, advise   agencies with respect to the effect of their respective plans and programs on recreation and natural beauty, and may suggest to such agencies ways to accomplish the purposes of this order. For the purposes of this order, plans and programs may include, but are not limited to, those for or affecting: (1) development, restoration, and preservation of the beauty of the countryside, urban and suburban areas, water resources, wild rivers, scenic roads, parkways and highways, (2) the protection and appropriate management of scenic or primitive areas, natural wonders, historic sites, and recreation areas, (3) the management of Federal land and water resources, including fish and wildlife, to enhance natural beauty and recreational opportunities consistent with other essential uses, (4) cooperation with the   and their local subdivisions and private organizations and individuals in areas of mutual interest, (5) interstate arrangements, including Federal participation where authorized and necessary, and (6) leadership in a nationwide recreation and beautification effort.

(c) The   shall assist the President in preparing periodic reports to the   on the subjects of this order.

 . 103.

Coordination.

The Secretary of the   may make available to the   for coordination of outdoor recreation the authorities and resources available to him under the Act of  , 77 Stat.  ; to the extent permitted by law, he may make such authorities and resources available to the   also for promoting such coordination of other matters assigned to the   by this order.

 . 104.

Assistance for the Council.

In compliance with provisions of applicable law, and as necessary to serve the purposes of this order, (1)   shall provide or arrange for necessary administrative and staff services, support, and facilities for the  , and (2) each department and agency which has membership on  ) hereof shall furnish the   such information and other assistance as may be available

PART II.  '  

 . 201.

Establishment of the  .

There is hereby established the   (hereinafter referred to as  "). The   shall be composed of a chairman and not more than 14 other members appointed by the President. Appointments to membership on the   shall be for staggered terms, except that the chairman of the   shall serve until his successor is appointed.

 . 202.

Functions of the  .

The   shall advise the President and the   on matters assigned to the   by the provisions of this order.

 . 203.

Expenses.

Members of the   shall receive no compensation from   by reason of their services under this order but shall be entitled to receive travel and expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

 . 204.

Continuity.

Persons who on the date of this order are members of   established by Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, shall, until the expirations of their respective terms and without further action by the President, be members of the   established by the provisions of this Part in lieu of an equal number of the members provided for in section 201 of this order.

PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 . 301.

Construction.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any department, establishment, or other instrumentality of the executive branch of   or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such agency or head, to the authority of any other such agency or head or as abrogating, modifying, or restricting any such function in any manner.

 . 302.

Prior bodies and orders.

The President's   and the Citizens' Advisory Committee on Recreation and Natural Beauty are hereby terminated and the following are revoked:

(1) Executive Order No.   of  .

(2) Executive Order No.  .

(3) Executive Order No.   of  .

 

 

 

NOTE: The Executive order was released at Key Biscayne,   For the President's statement upon signing the   order, see the preceding item.
