Executive Order  —Amending   to Prescribe Random Selection
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   (62 Stat. 604, as amended), I hereby prescribe the following amendments of   prescribed by Executive Orders No.   of September 17, 1948, No.   of  , No. 10292 of  , No.   of  , No. 10735 of  , No. 10984 of  , No. 11098 of  , No. 11119 of  , No. 11241 of  , No.  , and constituting portions of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:

1. Section 1631.4, Calls by the Secretary of  , is amended by revoking paragraphs (b) and (c) and re-designating paragraph (d) as (b).

2. Section 1631.5, Calls by the Director of  , is amended by adding a new paragraph (d), to read as follows:

"(d) The Director of   shall establish a random selection sequence for induction. Such random selection sequence shall be determined as the President may direct, and shall be applied nationwide. The first sequence shall determine the order of selection of registrants (other than delinquents or volunteers) who prior to  , shall have attained their   but not their  . New random selection sequences shall be established, in a similar manner, for registrants who attain    . The random sequence number determined for any registrant shall apply to him so long as he remains subject to random selection. A random sequence number established for a registrant shall be equivalent, for purposes of selection, to the same random sequence number established for other registrants in other drawings."

3.   (a) and (b) of Section 1631.7, Action by  , are revoked, paragraph (c) is redesignated as paragraph (b), and a new paragraph (a) is prescribed to read as follows:

"(a) When a call is received by a Notice of Call on Local Board (SSS Form 201) from the   Director of   for a specified number of men to be delivered for induction, or for a specified number of men in a medical, dental, or allied specialist category to be delivered for induction, the Executive Secretary or clerk, if so authorized, or a local board member shall select and issue orders to report for induction to the number of men required to fill the call from among its registrants who have been classified in Class I-A or Class I-A-O and have been found acceptable for service in   and to whom a Statement of Acceptability (DD Form 62) has been mailed   before the date fixed for induction: Provided, That any registrant classified in Class I-A or Class I-A-O who is subject to random selection as herein provided, whose random sequence number has been reached, and who would have been ordered to report for induction except for delays due to a pending personal appearance, appeal, preinduction examination, reclassification, or otherwise, shall if and when found acceptable and when such delay is concluded, be ordered to report for induction next after delinquents and volunteers even if   in which he otherwise would have been ordered to report has ended and even if (in cases of extended liability) he has attained his   birthday: Provided further, That a registrant classified in Class I-A or Class I-A-O who has volunteered for induction or who is a delinquent may be selected and ordered to report for induction to fill an induction call notwithstanding the fact that he has not been found acceptable for service in   and regardless of whether or not a Statement of Acceptability (DD Form 62) has been mailed to him. Registrants shall be selected and ordered to report for induction in the following categories and in the order indicated:

"(1) Delinquents who have attained   in the order of their dates of birth with the oldest being selected first.

"(2) Volunteers who have not attained   in the sequence in which they have volunteered for induction.

"(3) (i)  . In  , nonvolunteers born on or after  , and on or before  , who have not attained the 26th anniversary of the dates of their birth, in the order of their random sequence numbers established by random selection procedures prescribed in accordance with paragraph (d) of section 1631.5. The nonvolunteers thus subject to selection are designated the 1970 Selection Group and constitute category (3) for  . Members of   on  , whose random sequence numbers have not been reached by that date, shall be assigned to the priority group which is immediately below   for  .

"(ii)   and  . For  , and for  , a new   and lower priority groups shall be established which together will constitute category (3) for  .   shall consist (A) of nonvolunteers in Class I-A and Class I-A-O who prior to   of each such calendar year have attained   but not of  , and (B) of non-volunteers who prior to   of each such calendar year have attained the age of 19 but not of   and who during   are classified into Class I-A or Class I-A-O following expiration of their deferments or exemptions or otherwise. Members of each such  , who have not attained the 26th anniversary of the dates of their birth, shall be selected in the order of their random sequence numbers. Members of each such   on   of the respective calendar year whose random sequence numbers are not reached by that date shall be assigned to successively lower priority groups, so that those who were in the 1970 Selection Group and who move into a lower priority group at   as herein provided will be in the lowest such group, those who were in the     will be in the next to the lowest such group, and so forth. Any registrant who was subject to selection in the 1970 Selection Group or in   for any subsequent year, who thereafter is assigned to a lower priority group in category (3), who while in such a lower priority group receives a deferment or exemption, and who subsequently is reclassified into Class I-A or Class I-A-O, shall be reassigned to the priority group in which he would have been if he had not received such deferment or exemption.

"(iii) Certain Registrants Married Before  . Within each group in category (3) there shall be a subgroup consisting of registrants who have a wife whom they married on or before  , and with whom they maintain a bona fide family relationship in their homes. Registrants in any such subgroup shall be in all respects subject to this paragraph, except that they shall be selected after other registrants in the group of which that subgroup is a part.

"(4) Nonvolunteers who attain   during   but who have not attained  , in the order of their dates of birth with the oldest being selected first.

"(5) Nonvolunteers who have attained   in the order of their dates of birth with the youngest being selected first.

"(6) Nonvolunteers who have attained   and   and who have not attained   in the order of their dates of birth with the oldest being selected first."

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 
