Executive Order  —Including Certain Lands in  
 
 

WHEREAS, on  ,   and   entered into an agreement providing for the transfer by the said   to the said   right of possession and all other right, title, and interest which the   might have in or to the tract of land in  ,  , therein designated and described, so that such tract might be included in and reserved as a part of  , in accordance with the terms and conditions of the said agreement and subject to the approval required by section 4 (k)

(c) of   of  , as amended by the Act of   (16 U.S.C. Section 831c(k) (c)); and

WHEREAS, on  , the said agreement between   and   was approved by the Director of   pursuant to the provisions of section 4 (k) (c) of   of  , as amended, supra, and of section 1(14) of Executive Order No.  ; and

WHEREAS, it appears that such lands are suitable for national-forest purposes and that the inclusion of such lands in   would be in the public interest:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 24 of the Act of  , 26 Stat.  , and the Act of  , 30 Stat.  ,   (16 U.S.C. 471, 473), and as President of  , and upon the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is ordered that the following described tract of land be included in and reserved as part of  , such inclusion and reservation to be in accordance with and subject to all of the provisions and conditions of the said agreement of  , between   and  Tract Number XTWIR-5

A tract of land lying in   of  , State of  , on the right side of the Watauga River, approximately 1,000 feet north of  , and more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at a metal marker (Coordinates: N. 733, 437; E. 3, 139, 411) in the center line of a road and in the boundary of the land of   in the custody of   at a corner to the land of   et ux.

From the initial point with the line of the land in the custody of  ,

N. 69°42' E., 757 feet to a metal marker;

N. 63°50'E., 636 feet to a metal marker;

S. 21°59' E., 622 feet to a metal marker;

S. 59°04' W., 503 feet to a metal marker;

Leaving the line of the land in the custody of  ,

N. 76°19' W., 72 feet to a metal marker in the center line of a road at a junction of roads;

With the center line of a road approximately along a bearing and distance of N. 74°46' W., 1049 feet to the point of beginning. The above described land contains 15.1 acres, more or less.

The positions of corners and directions of lines are referred to the Tennessee Coordinate System.

NOTE: The above described land is transferred subject to the following:

1. Such rights as may by vested in   third parties to a right-of-way for a road.

2. An easement reservation in favor of   and   for an electric power transmission line right-of-way on, over, and across a strip of land 100 feet wide, lying 50 feet on each side of the center line of an existing electric power transmission line owned and operated by the   and known as  , the center line of the strip being described as follows: Beginning at a point in the center line of the existing transmission line and in the northwest boundary of the above described land approximately 135 feet southwest of the most northerly property corner; thence with the center line of the existing transmission line approximately S. 22° W., 530 feet to a transmission line tower; thence approximately S. 23° E., 330 feet to a point in the boundary of the described land at or near the most southerly property corner.

RICHARD NIXON

 

 
