Executive Order  —Developing and Coordinating a National Program for   and Sports
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Program for physical fitness and sports. The Secretary of  , and   (hereinafter referred to as "the Secretary") shall, in carrying out his responsibilities in relation to education and public health, including specifically the health of children and youth, develop and coordinate a national program for physical fitness and sports. The Secretary shall:

(1) Enlist the active support and assistance of individual citizens, civic groups, professional associations, amateur and professional sports groups, private enterprise, voluntary organizations, and others in efforts to promote and improve physical fitness and sports participation programs for all  ;

(2) Stimulate, improve, and strengthen coordination of Federal services and programs relating to physical fitness and sports participation;

(3) Encourage State and local governments in efforts to enhance physical fitness and sports participation;

(4) Seek to strengthen the physical fitness of   children, youth, and adults by systematically encouraging the development of community centered and other physical fitness and sports participation programs to encourage innovation, improve teacher preparation, and strengthen   and local leadership;

(5) Develop cooperative programs with medical, dental, and other similar professional societies to encourage and implement sound physical fitness practices;

(6) Stimulate and encourage research in the areas of physical fitness and sports performance; and

(7) Improve school health and physical education programs for all pupils, including the handicapped and the physically underdeveloped, by assisting educational agencies in developing quality programs to encourage innovation, improve teacher preparation, and strengthen   and local leadership.

 . 2. President's  . (a) There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as "the  "), which shall be composed of the President's Consultant on Physical Fitness, who shall be the Chairman, and fourteen other members appointed by the President. The   shall meet on the call of the Chairman.

(b) The members of the   shall receive no compensation from   by reason of their service on the  , but shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving the Government without compensation (5 U.S.C.  ).

 . 3. Functions of the  . (a) The   shall advise the President and the Secretary concerning progress made in carrying out the provisions of this order and shall recommend to the President and the Secretary, as necessary, steps to accelerate progress.

(b) The   shall advise the Secretary on matters pertaining to ways and means of enhancing opportunities for participation in physical fitness and sports activities and on  , local, and private action to extend and improve physical activity programs and services.

 . 4. Conference on  . (a) There is hereby established a   (hereinafter referred to as "the Conference"), which shall be composed of one hundred members whom the President may from time to time appoint. The Conference shall meet on the call of the Secretary to assist him in carrying out his responsibilities under this order.

(b) The members of the Conference shall receive no compensation or expense allowances from   by reason of their service on the Conference.

 . 5. Assistance by Agencies. (a) The Secretary and the   are authorized to request from any   or agency information or assistance deemed necessary to carry out their functions under this order and each department and agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information and assistance to the Secretary and the  .

(b) The Secretary shall appoint the Executive Director of the  . Subject to law, (1)  , and   shall furnish necessary staff, supplies, facilities, and other administrative services for the  , (2) expenses of the   shall be met from funds available to the Secretary, and (3) the   may provide staff assistance to the Conference.

 . 6. Continuity. (a) The   established by this order shall be deemed to be a continuation of   which has heretofore existed under Executive Order No.   of  , as amended.

(b) The seal prescribed by Executive Order No. 10830 of July 24,  , as amended, shall be the seal of the President's   as reconstituted herein.

 . 7. Revocations. Executive  .   of  , and Executive Order No.   of  , are hereby revoked.

 . 8. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any   or agency or any officer thereof.

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: For appointment of members and Executive Director of the President's   and of members of  , see the following item.
