Executive Order  —Regulations Governing the Election of Certain Members and Former Members of   with   to Retirement Pay
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 411 of the Career Compensation Act of  , approved   (Public Law 351, 81st  ), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the election, as authorized by the said section 411, of members and formers members of the uniformed service to receive (1) disability retirement pay or disability severance pay under the provisions of   of that act or (2) retired pay or retirement pay commuted by one of the two methods contained in section 511 of that act:

SECTION 1. (a) As referred to in this order "members" and "former members" of the uniformed services shall be considered to include all persons entitled to make an election under section 411 of the Career Compensation Act of  .

(b) As used in this order the term "Secretary" shall have the meaning prescribed therefor by section 102(f) of the Career Compensation Act of  .

 . 2. The Secretary concerned shall determine and inform each member and each former member of the uniformed service or services under his jurisdiction of (a) the status and benefits to which such person is or may be entitled under the alternative clauses (A) and (B) of section 411 of the Career Compensation Act of  , (b) his right to make an election of benefit thereunder within the   period beginning  , and (c) the effect of section 402(h) of the said act with respect to the disability retirement pay to which he is or may be entitled.

 . 3. Each member and each former member of the uniformed services to which section 411 of the Career Compensation Act of   is applicable shall continue to receive retired pay or retirement pay in the amount authorized by the applicable provisions of law in effect on  ,   immediately preceding the effective date of section 411 of the Career Compensation Act of  , unless, pursuant to the said section 411, he elects a different method of payment prior to  , and qualifies for such method.

 . 4. Any election made pursuant to section 411 of the Career Compensation Act of   and these regulations shall be effective as of  .

 . 5. The   concerned are authorized to prescribe such supplemental regulations, not inconsistent herewith, as they may deem necessary or desirable for carrying out the provisions of this order.

 . 6. This order shall be effective as  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
