Executive Order  —Transferring Jurisdiction Over Blocked Assets to the Attorney General
 
 

WHEREAS with the successful termination of hostilities, there has been a gradual release from control by   over foreign property and interests which had been blocked to prevent their looting by the   and their use in ways harmful to the war effort of  ; and

WHEREAS certain of such foreign property and interests have not yet been unblocked; and

WHEREAS it is now necessary and desirable to place the jurisdiction over the assets remaining blocked on  , in the same agency which is administering the program of alien property control initiated under Executive Order No. 9095 of  , as amended, which program is presently being administered by the Attorney General;

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the Trading With the Enemy Act of  , as amended, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Attorney General is hereby authorized and directed to take such action as he may deem necessary with respect to any property or interest of any nature whatsoever in which any foreign country designated in Executive Order No. 8389 of  , as amended, or any national thereof has any interest (including property subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) of General License No.  , as amended (31  ,    ., 131.94), and including any   within the meaning of General Ruling No. 5, as amended (31  ,    ., 131,  . A), both issued by the Secretary of the  ) which on  , is not unblocked or otherwise removed from the restrictions of the said Executive Order No.  , as amended, by any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other action issued or taken by the Secretary of the  . In the performance of his duties under this order, the Attorney General or any officer, person, agency, or instrumentality designated by him, may exercise all powers and authority vested in the President by sections 3(a) and 5(b) of the Trading With the Enemy Act, as amended. As used herein, the terms "national" and "foreign country" shall have the meanings prescribed in Executive Order No.  , as amended.

2. With respect to the property and interests referred to in section 1 hereof, all orders, regulations, rulings, instructions, or licenses issued by the Secretary of the   under the authority of Executive Order No.  , as amended, and Executive Order No.  , as amended, and in force on  , shall continue in full force and effect except as amended, modified, or revoked by the Attorney General.

3. It is the policy of this order that administrative action under paragraph 1 hereof shall be taken by the Attorney General or any officer, person, agency, or instrumentality designated by him. However, nothing in this order shall be deemed to limit or remove any powers heretofore conferred upon the Secretary of the   or the Attorney General by statute or by Executive order. No person affected by any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other action issued or taken by either the Secretary of the   or the Attorney General may challenge the validity thereof or otherwise excuse his actions, or failure to act, on the ground that pursuant to the provisions of this   order, such order, regulations, rulings, instruction, license, or other action was within the jurisdiction of the Attorney General rather than the Secretary of the   or vice versa.

4. This order shall become effective as of midnight,  .

HARRY S TRUMAN

 ,

 
