Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS by section 33(c) of   (5 U.S.C. 784), as amended by section 209 of the act of   (Public Law 357, 81st  ), the   declared its purpose to reduce the number of accidents and injuries among Government officers and employees, encourage safe practices, eliminate work hazards and health risks, and reduce compensable injuries; and

WHEREAS by the said act, as amended and as modified by Reorganization Plan No. 19 of  , effective   (15  ), the heads of Government departments and agencies are directed to develop, support, and foster organized safety promotion, and to keep such records of injuries and accidents to persons covered by the said act, and to make such statistical and other reports, as the Secretary of labor may prescribe; and

WHEREAS the President is authorized by the said act, as amended, to establish by Executive order a safety council composed of representatives of Government departments and agencies to serve as an advisory body to the Secretary of   in furtherance of the safety program carried out by the Secretary pursuant to section 33 of the aforesaid act, as amended, and to undertake such other measures as he deems proper to prevent injuries and accidents to persons covered by the said act:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 33(c) of the aforesaid  , as amended, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established in  , hereinafter referred to as the  , to serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of   in matters relating to the safety of civilian employees of   and the furtherance of the safety program carried out by the Secretary pursuant to section 33 of the aforesaid  , as amended. The   shall be composed of one qualified representative of each of the several executive departments and agencies, and of  . Such representatives shall be designated by the heads of the respective departments and agencies, who may also designate suitable alternate representatives. The members of the   shall serve without additional compensation.

2. The   shall advise the Secretary of   with respect to the development and maintenance of adequate and effective safety organizations and programs in the several   departments and agencies and with respect to criteria, standards, and procedures designed to eliminate work hazards and health risks and to prevent injuries and accidents in Federal employment.

3. The Secretary of   shall prescribe appropriate regulations governing the activities and functions of the  , and shall designate the Chairman thereof. The   may choose such other officers, and establish such committees as it finds necessary for carrying out its functions.

4. The Secretary of   is hereby authorized and directed to provide, within the limits of funds available to him for this purpose, such staff and other services and supplies as may be required by the   in the performance of its duties.

5. Executive  .   of  , establishing  , is hereby revoked. The records of the said   shall be transferred to  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
