Executive Order  —Directing the Return of   to  
 
 

WHEREAS Executive Order No. 8929 of   (6 F.R. 5581), directed that from that date and until further orders   should operate as a part of the navy, subject to the orders of the Secretary of the  ; and

WHEREAS the need for the operation of   as a part of the   no longer exists, its primary mission in operating as a part of the   having been accomplished;

NOW THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statues of  , including Title I of the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), and as President of  , it is hereby directed that on and after  , the   shall operate under  ; and thereupon all authority, powers, and duties conferred upon or vested in the Secretary of the   by any law, proclamation or Executive order affecting  , enacted or promulgated during the period   has been operating as a part of the   and now in effect, shall, to the extent that they affect  , vest in and be exercised by the Secretary of the  .

This order is subject to the following exceptions, provisions, and conditions:

1. In the interest of expeditious demobilization and other exigencies of  , such   vessels, facilities, and personnel as the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of the   may mutually agree upon shall continue to operate as a part of the  , subject to the orders of the Secretary of the  , for such additional time beyond  , as the agreement may provide.

2. The Coast Guard shall continue, for such period as may be mutually agreeable to the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of the  ,   functions and the maintenance and operation of mid-ocean weather stations and air-sea navigational aids, under the directional control of the  ; and all vessels, facilities, equipment and supplies required by   in connection with the maintenance and operation of such activities and not required by   are authorized to be transferred to the jurisdiction of   for the use of  .

3. In the initiation, prosecution, and completion of disciplinary action, including remission and mitigation of punishments for any offense committed by any officer or enlisted man of  , the jurisdiction shall depend upon and be in accordance with the laws and regulations of the department having jurisdiction of the person of such offender at the various stages of such action.

4. In effecting the transfer herein prescribed no change shall be made until  , in existing methods of appropriation accounting, or in existing methods of disbursement for  , which shall continue until that date to be performed as heretofore by officers of the   or   designated under existing regulations for that purpose. The appropriation accounts of   shall be kept on the general ledgers of   until   after which date they shall be transferred to  .

The said Executive Order No. 8929 of  , is hereby revoked.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
