Executive Order 9691—Directing   to   Under  , and Authorizing the Adoption of Special Regulations During the Transitional Period
 
 

WHEREAS Executive Order No. 9063 of  , was designed to expedite recruitment for Federal positions during the war period, and to defer the permanent filing of vacancies while millions of citizens in the armed forces and in war industries were unavailable to compete for permanent appointment; and

WHEREAS the release of men and women from the armed forces and from war industries has progressed to such a degree that certain procedures adopted under Executive Order No. 9063 are no longer deemed necessary and it is desirable that returning veterans and others formerly not available for consideration be given opportunity to compete for permanent appointment; and

WHEREAS it is in the interest of economy and efficiency that positions in the classified (competitive) civil service be filed in times of normal competition on a permanent basis by the best qualified persons as determined through competitive examination:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by sections 2 and 3 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403), section 1753 of the Revised Statutes, and section 3(b) of  , as amended (5  . IV, 693), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.   is directed to resume, as rapidly as its resources will permit, the announcement of open competitive examinations, and the establishment of registers of eligibles, for the purpose of certifying eligibles for regular probational appointment to fill vacancies which may occur in the classified (competitive) service and to replace persons who do not have permanent tenure and who are occupying positions in the classified (competitive) service under war-service or other temporary appointments.

2. (a) In order to assure the maximum utilization, in the recruitment and placement of persons for the Federal service, of the field service resources of the departments and agencies,  , after consulting the departments and agencies concerned, may establish   in the field service, composed of officers or employees of the departments and agencies concerned.

(b) In order to assure the maximum utilization, in the recruitment and placement of persons for the Federal service, of the resources of the departments and agencies in the departmental service in  ,  ,  , after consulting the departments and agencies concerned, may establish, for scientific, professional (other than legal), or technical examinations,   of Expert Examiners in the departmental service in   composed of officers or employees of the departments and agencies concerned, who are of outstanding competence in the various scientific, professional, or technical fields for which the examinations are held.

(c) The work of the boards or committees referred to in this section in connection with the execution of  , shall be under the direction and supervision of the  .

(d) The duties performed by the members of such boards or committees shall be considered part of the duties of the office or organization in which they are serving and time shall be allowed therefor during regular working hours.

3.   is authorized to issue regulations which will provide for the transitional period until such time as   are revised, and which will make effective the provisions of the  ' Preference Act of  . Not   following the date of this order all appointments, transfers, reinstatements, changes in status and other actions involving the classified (competitive) civil service shall be made in accordance with the Civil service Rules and Regulations; Provided, however, that  , the   shall submit to the President recommendations for a general revision of  .

4. Pending the establishment of appropriate registers through open competitive civil service examinations the   may authorize departments and agencies to make appointments of a temporary nature. In making such temporary appointments there shall be no discrimination because of race, creed, color, or national origin, and the department and agencies shall give preference in the order named (a) to qualified persons entitled to ten-point preference under the  ' Preference Act of  , (b) to qualified persons entitled to five-point preference under that Act, and (c) to qualified former Federal employees. Upon establishment before the   that this order of selection has not been followed in any case, the person appointed may be removed. The   shall require departments and agencies to keep such records and make such reports as will show that the preferences in appointment provided by this section have been granted. Persons appointed under this section shall not be regarded as occupying permanent positions for the purpose of section 7 of the Classification Act of  , as amended, and shall not by virtue of such appointment be subject to  .

5. As soon as practicable after the establishment of appropriate registers of eligibles through competitive examination the   shall, in accordance with  , and  , issue certificates for probational appointment of eligibles to fill current vacancies and to replace persons who do not have permanent tenure and who are occupying positions subject to  . The replacement of persons without permanent tenure shall be made in the following order: (a) war-service and other temporary appointees who fail to compete or to qualify in the appropriate examination; and (b) all other war-service and other temporary appointees unless (1) they are reached and selected for probational appointment in accordance with  , or (2) they are recommended for and granted a classified (competitive) civil service status under the provisions of section 6 of this order.

The appointment of war-service appointees may, in the discretion of the  , be extended beyond   after the duration of the war. The employment of war-service or other temporary appointees shall not be extended beyond the period specified by the  , but separations under this section shall be made in the order prescribed by the  .

6. When the   has established an appropriate register of eligibles through open competitive examination for probational appointment, it may, upon recommendation of the head of the agency concerned, confer a classified (competitive) civil service status upon any person serving in a position which would be filed by certification from such register who meets the following conditions:

(a) He made an eligible rating in the open competitive examination and the lowest rating reached in accordance with the regular order of certification does not exceed his rating by more than five points: Provided, that where ten-point preference eligibles are placed at the top of the register no person may be granted status under this section until all ten-point preference eligibles standing higher on the register have been appointed or have been given appropriate consideration in accordance with the regulations issued under the  ' Preference Act of  : Provided further, that in no event shall a non-veteran be granted status under this section until all preference eligibles standing higher on the register have been appointed or have been given appropriate consideration in accordance with the regulations issued under the  ' Preference Act of  .

(b) He is serving under an appointment which is not limited to   or less.

(c) He has had   of service under such appointment: Provided that military service shall be counted in computing the period of service.

7.   shall, before  , submit recommendations for a general revision of Schedule A of  . In the interim period, whenever the   determines, upon a request made by any department or agency, that any position or class of positions in the professional, scientific, or technical fields not excepted from the classified (competitive) service should in the public interest be so excepted, the   shall cause publication in   of its determination of excepting such position or class of positions and thereafter appointment thereto may be made as under   serving under war-service appointments in any such position so excepted may be retained therein until   is specifically amended to include such positions, and unless specifically limited to   or less, new appointments made under this section shall not be regarded as temporary appointments: Provided, that no person shall continue in employment under the authority of this section after  , unless the position occupied by such person shall have been included under   This section shall not apply to positions filed by persons having a classified (competitive) civil service status.

8.   is authorized to confer a classified (competitive) civil service status or a probational status upon any person entitled to military preference under the  ' Preference Act of   who establishes the existence of a service-connected disability of not less than ten per cent: Provided that such person is serving either (a) under a war-service indefinite appointment, or (b) under appointment in accordance with section 4 of this order if he qualifies in an appropriate examination and his services are required indefinitely by the department or agency in which he is employed.

9. Executive  . 9063 of     of  , and 8514 of  , are hereby revoked. Nothing in this order shall be construed to affect reemployment rights heretofore acquired by any person under any law or Executive order, or under any regulation or administrative procedure of any Government agency.

 

 ,

 
