Executive Order  —Transferring   to  
 
 

Whereas the War Assets Administrator, pursuant to the provisions of the Surplus Property Act of  , as amended, has by Regulation No. 1, as revised, effective  , designated the War Assets Administration as the disposal agency for all personal property located in the territories and possessions of   for which   has heretofore been the disposal agency:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the Statutes of  , including Title I of the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered, in the interest of the internal management of the Government, as follows:

1.   is hereby transferred to  .

2. All records and funds (including all unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other available funds) of   which are used primarily in the administration of the functions, powers, and duties of   as a disposal agency under the Surplus Property Act, all property (including office equipment) purchased with such funds, all contracts and other valid obligations of such office relating primarily to the administration of such functions, powers, and duties, and all personnel of such office engaged primarily in the administration of such functions, powers, and duties, as the Secretary of the Interior and the War Assets Administrator shall jointly determine, shall be transferred to   for use in connection with the exercise and performance of such functions, powers, and duties. Such measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of   to be necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this paragraph shall be carried out in such manner as the Director of   may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.

3.   and   shall supply and render, each to the other, materials, supplies, equipment, work, and services in accordance with section 7 of the Act of  , as amended (31 U. S. C. 686), to the extent and for such period after the effective date hereof as may be mutually agreeable to the Secretary of the Interior and   in order to facilitate the purposes of this order.

4. The War Assets Administrator may in his discretion terminate the office transferred by paragraph 1 hereof as a separate organizational entity within the War Assets Administration.

5. This order shall become effective  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
