Executive Order  —Acquisition of   or Assigned to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Civil Service Act of   (22 Stat. 403), section 1753 of the Revised Statutes, the Foreign Service Act of   (60 Stat. 999), and as President of  , and in order to facilitate the interchange of personnel between   and other branches of the Government, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. Any officer or employee of the government assigned to   as   Officer in accordance with section 522(2) of the Foreign Service Act of   who was at the time of his assignment an officer or employee of the Government serving under a war service indefinite or temporary indefinite appointment and who is reached in regular order for probational appointment from a   register appropriate for filing the position in which he was serving at the time of assignment or who could, with the approval of the head of the agency in which he was serving, have been given a competitive status under   if he had remained in his former position, shall be considered as having a competitive status as of the date he is reached for probational appointment or classification.

2. Any officer or employee of the Government who is appointed, at the request of the head of the agency in which he was serving, as a Foreign Service Staff Officer or employee for a period limited in duration to   or less shall be entitled to the same rights with regard to acquisition of a competitive status as is provided by section 1 of this order, and any such officer or employee who has, or acquires, a competitive status shall be entitled to the same rights with regard to reinstatement in such agency as a person who is assigned to   as   Officer is entitled to receive under the terms of section 528 of the Foreign Service Act of  .

3. Whenever an agency fills a position previously occupied by   Officer or   Officer or employee entitled to reinstatement in such agency under the provisions of the Foreign Service Act of   and this order, the appointment, promotion, transfer, or other personnel action shall be made on a temporary basis pending the return of the officer or employee in question.

4.   shall,   prior to the completion of the service of   Officer, Staff Officer, or employee entitled to reinstatement under the provisions of the Foreign Service Act of   or of this order, notify the officer or employee and the head of the agency in which the officer or employee was serving immediately prior to his assignment to   proposed termination of assignment in  , make arrangements for the return to duty of such officer or employee.

5. A person shall be deemed to have waived his rights to reinstatement under the terms of section 528 of the Foreign Service Act of   and the terms of this order if he accepts at the termination of his period of service in   a position elsewhere than in the Government agency in which he has previously served or fails to avail himself of his right to reinstatement within   after the end of his period of service in  .

6.   is authorized, after consultation with  , to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order: Provided, that any changes in such rules and regulations made subsequent to the appointment or assignment of personnel for duty with   shall not be effective as to such personnel without the prior concurrence of  .

7. This order shall become effective as of  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
