Executive Order 10108—Designating   Mission to   and Providing for Its Direction and Administration
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   of 1945 (59 Stat. 619), as amended by the act of  , 63 Stat. 734, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Representative of   to  , the Deputy Representative of   to  , the Deputy Representative of   to  , representatives of   in   and its  , representatives of   in  ,  ,  , and   of  , and representatives to organs and agencies of   appointed or designated and included within   Mission to   as herein designated, together with their deputies, staffs, and offices, shall constitute and be known as   to  .

2. The Representative of   to the   shall be the Chief of Mission in charge of   Mission to  . The Chief of Mission shall coordinate at the seat of   the activities of the Mission in carrying out the instructions of the President transmitted either by the Secretary of   or by other means of transmission as directed by the President. Instructions to the representatives of   in   of the   shall be transmitted by  . On request of the Chief of Mission, such representatives shall, in addition to their responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations, serve as advisers in   Mission to  .

3. The Chief of Mission shall be responsible for the administration of the Mission, including personnel, budget, obligation and expenditure of funds, and the central administrative services; provided that he shall not be responsible for the internal administration of the personnel, budget, and obligation and expenditure of funds of the representatives of   in   of  . The Chief of Mission shall discharge his responsibilities under this paragraph in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of   may from time to time prescribe.

4. The Deputy Representative of   to the   shall be the Deputy Chief of Mission, who shall act as Chief of Mission in the absence of the Representative of   to  .

5. This order supersedes Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Designating the United States Mission to the United Nations and Providing for Its Direction and Administration."

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
