Executive Order  —National Security Medal
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established a medal to be known as   with accompanying ribbons and appurtenances. The medal and its appurtenances shall be of appropriate design, approved by the Executive Secretary of  .

2.   may be awarded to any person, without regard to nationality, including members of the armed forces of  , for distinguished achievement or outstanding contribution on or after  , in the field of intelligence relating to the national security.

3. The decoration established by this order shall be awarded by the President of   or, under regulations approved by him, by such person or persons as he may designate.

4. No more than one National Security Medal shall be awarded to any one person, but for subsequent services justifying an award, a suitable device may be awarded to be worn with the  .

5. Members of the armed forces of   who are awarded the decoration established by this order are authorized to wear the medal and the ribbon symbolic of the award, as may be authorized by uniform regulations approved by the Secretary of  .

6. The decoration established by this order may be awarded posthumously.

Approved:

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 .

Note: The accompanying document, which was approved by the President on  , was published with Executive Order  .

Regulations Governing the Award of   of Executive Order  , the following regulations are hereby issued to govern the award of  :

1.   may be awarded to any person without regard to nationality, including a member of  , who, on or after  , has made an outstanding contribution to the   intelligence effort. This contribution may consist of either exceptionally meritorious service performed in a position of high responsibility or of an act of valor requiring personal courage of a high degree and complete disregard of personal safety.

2.   with accompanying ribbon and appurtenances, shall be of appropriate design to be approved by the Executive Secretary of  .

3.   shall be awarded only by the President or his designee for that purpose.

4. Recommendations may be submitted to the Executive Secretary of   by any individual having personal knowledge of the facts of the exceptionally meritorious conduct or act of valor of the candidate in the performance of outstanding services, either as an eyewitness or from the testimony of others who have personal knowledge or were eyewitnesses. Any recommendations shall be accompanied by complete documentation, including where necessary, certificates, affidavits or sworn transcripts of testimony. Each recommendation for an award shall show the exact status, at the time of the rendition of the service on which the recommendation is based, with respect to citizenship, employment, and all other material factors, of the person who is being recommended for  .

5. Each recommendation shall contain a draft of an appropriate citation to accompany the award of  .
