Executive Order  —Adopting the Manual for Courts-Martial,  ,  , for Use in  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Chapter II of the act of   entitled "An act to amend an act entitled 'An act for making further and more effectual provision for the national defense, and for other purposes,' approved  , and to establish military justice," approved   (41 Stat. 787), as amended by Title II of the act entitled "An act to provide for the common defense by increasing the strength of the armed forces of  , including the reserve components thereof, and for other purposes," approved   (62 Stat. 627), and the act entitled "An act to provide for the administration of military justice within  , and for other purposes," approved   (62 Stat.  ), and as President of  , it is ordered that  ,  ,  , prescribed by Executive   of  , be, and it is hereby, adopted for use in, prescribed for, and made applicable to,   for the government of all concerned, in accordance with the provisions of the attached   adapting the said manual for use in  .

The said manual and the provisions of the said Preface shall be in force and effect in   on and after  , and shall be applicable, until  , with respect to all court-martial processes taken with respect to   personnel under the command and authority of the Chief of Staff,  : provided, that nothing contained in this manual shall be construed to invalidate any investigation, trial in which arraignment has been had, or other action begun prior to  ; and any such investigation, trial, or action so begun may be completed in accordance with the provisions of  ,  : Provided further, that nothing contained in this manual shall be construed to make punishable any act done or omitted prior to the effective date of this manual which was not punishable when done or omitted: And provided further, that the maximum punishment for an offense committed prior to  , shall not exceed the applicable limit in effect at the time of the commission of such offense.

PREFACE

This preface is prescribed for use in conjunction with  ,  ,  , prepared in   General of the  , when such manual is used by or applied to personnel of   and such other personnel as may be under the jurisdiction of  . In order to adapt the Articles of War to the personnel of  , as provided in the act of  , entitled "An Act to provide for the administration of military justice within  , and for other purposes" (62 Stat.  ), and in order to adapt  ,  ,  , for use by  , the following definitions, interpretations, adaptations, and additions shall be used to construe the language used in the articles of War and in the Manual for Courts-Martial,  ,  , and to implement the same when applied to  .

1. The terms "military service of  " and "military service" when used in the Articles of War and in the Manual for Courts-Martial,  ,  , to define persons who may be appointed on courts0martial or tried by courts-martial appointed by commanders within   of   shall be deemed to refer only to   personnel and, until 2400 hours,  , to   personnel under the command and authority of the Chief of Staff,  . As such terms are generally used elsewhere in the Articles of War and in the Manual for Courts-Martial,  ,  , they shall be deemed to include   unless the contrary clearly appears from the context. When the word "military" is used in such terms as "military commander", "military officer", "military superior", "military personnel", "military administration", "military discipline", "military duty", it shall be deemed to refer to   unless the contrary clearly appears from the context.

2. The term " ", when used to describe a branch of  , or when used as an adjective, shall be deemed to mean   unless the contrary clearly appears from the context.

3. The term "armies" shall be deemed to mean   of  .

4. The following chart sets forth the   command enumerated in the Articles of War and in the Manual for Courts-Martial and   command which shall be considered as "the corresponding unit of  ".

 

(1)   group. (1)  .

(2) Army. (2)  .

(3)  . (3) No present comparable unit.

(4) Division. (4)  .

(5) Brigade. (5) Wing.

(6) Regiment. (6) Group.

(7) Battalion. (7) Squadron.

(8) Company. (8) Squadron.

5. The phrase "district,  ,  , camp, station, or other place where troops are on duty" and the phrase " ,  , camp, or other place where troops are on duty" shall be deemed to include air force bases and air force auxiliary fields. Such terms as "district", "garrison", "fort", "camp", "post", "station", "command", "guard" "quarters", "party", "detachment", "fortification", "encampment" and "premises", whether used individually or collectively, shall be deemed to apply to, consist of, or be upon air force bases and air force auxiliary fields.

6. The terms "Department of the  " and "Secretary of the  " or "Secretary of   shall be deemed to mean   and Secretary of  , respectively, except that when the terms "Department of the  " and "Secretary of the  " are used with reference to the imprisonment of, or clemency granted to, general prisoners in   Disciplinary Barracks, or any of the branches thereof, or in Federal penal institutions, the terms shall, until such time as the authority governing such functions shall be transferred to the Secretary of   under the National Security Act of   (61 Stat. 496), have their ordinary connotations.

7. The term "Judge Advocate General's Corps" shall be construed to refer to that group of judge advocate officers in   of   constituting a Judge     within   of   or designated as Judge Advocates by appropriate orders.

8. The terms "The Judge Advocate General" or "The Judge Advocate General of the  " and "Assistant Judge Advocate General" or "Assistant Judge Advocates General" shall be construed to refer to The Judge Advocate General and to the Assistant Judge Advocate General or Assistant Judge Advocates General,  , respectively.

9. The term "The Adjutant General" shall be construed to refer to  ,  , or those persons in   of   who are charged by law regulations, or customs of the service with performing any functions similar to those performed by  ; provided, however that until 2400 hours,  , where a function is still being performed by   or   under section 207(f) of the National Security Act of   (61 Stat. 502), and the performance of that function requires that   the   continue as the custodian of the records pertaining to that function, the term "The Adjutant General" shall have its ordinary connotation.

10. As the word "cadet" is used in  ,  , and 48 and defined in   as "a cadet of  ", such word has no application in   as presently constituted insofar as the administration of military justice is concerned and will be disregarded.

11. The term "soldier", "enlisted man", or "enlisted personnel" shall be deemed to include airman or airmen, depending on the manner in which the term is used.

12. Where reference is made to   or other   publications, such regulations or publications shall be applicable to   provided   has adopted such regulations or publications for use therein. Where reference is made to   or other   publications which have been declared, by proper authority, to be inapplicable to  , the reference shall be deemed to be a reference to any applicable   publication governing the subject.

13. If prior to 2400 hours,  , the expiration of the transfer period prescribed by section 208(e) of the National Security Act of   (61 Stat. 503),   personnel under the command and authority of the Chief of Staff,  , are designated as members of a court-martial, the record of trial shall include a certificate, signed by the adjutant, assistant adjutant, or other competent authority of the appointing command, indicating that such personnel are under the command and authority of the Chief of Staff,  .

14. Members of the   and members of the   are not competent to serve on   courts-martial, provided, however, that within the exception set out in paragraph 13, above,   personnel under the command and authority of the Chief of Staff,  , may serve on   courts-martial until 2400 hours,  .

15. Examples although not exclusive, of the foregoing definitions, interpretations, adaptations, and additions, when  ,  ,  , is used by   of  , are set forth below.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
