Executive Order 9984—Regulations Governing the Furnishing of Clothing in Kind or Payment of Cash Allowances in   to   of the  ,  ,   and  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 10 of the Pay Readjustment Act of   (56 Stat. 359, 363), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the furnishing of clothing in kind, or payment of cash allowances in lieu thereof, to enlisted personnel of the  ,  ,  , and  .

Section A. Clothing in Kind or Cash Allowances in  .

Enlisted men shall be entitled to clothing in kind or payment of cash allowances in lieu thereof as follows:

[  723-724]

Section B. Clothing Allowance.

1. The amount of the cash clothing allowances prescribed in subsection a1(b) hereof shall be payable on date of first enlistment or first reporting for active duty, and on date of reenlistment or recall to active duty subsequent to expiration of   from date of last discharge or release from active duty, but shall not actually be paid prior to the expiration of   from and including such date, or date of completion of recruit training, or d date of advancement to chief petty officer or assignment to band, whichever is earlier. in closing the accounts of a man discharged or released from active duty within   period, credit shall be made only of an amount equal to the value of the clothing actually drawn, but in no case to exceed the total allowance payable.

2. For the purposes of this order, an enlistment in any of the services mentioned in Section A subsequent to discharge from any other of such services shall be considered a reenlistment. An allowance under subsection A1 shall not be payable upon reenlistment within   from date of last discharge, or upon recall to active duty within   release therefrom, except as specified in subsections 5, 6 and 7 of this section. A man reenlisted or recalled to active duty within   of last discharge or release from active duty, who on date of such discharge or release was checked undrawn clothing allowance in accordance with subsection 1 of this section, shall be entitled to credit for such undrawn clothing allowance.

3. The allowance under subsection A2 shall not be payable to-

(a) Enlisted men advanced in rating to chief petty officer while holding a temporary appointment to warrant or commissioned rank.

(b) Cooks or stewards on advancement to chief cook or steward.

(c) Members of  ,  , or   (band members) upon advancement in rating to chief petty officer.

4. An enlisted man reduced in rating from chief petty officer, cook, or steward shall not be required to refund payment previously made in accordance with subsection  ; and shall not be entitled to a second payment on subsequent advancement, or to a payment of   maintenance allowance prior to the date specified in subsection C1(a) hereof.

5. An enlisted man first reporting for active duty in a status entitling him only to an issue of clothing in kind in accordance with subsection   and A9(b) hereof, upon subsequent transfer to, or reenlistment within   of last discharge in, another status which, in the case of first enlistment or reporting for active duty, would entitle him to a cash clothing allowance as prescribed in subsection A1 hereof, shall be entitled to a credit of such cash clothing allowance without regard to issues in kind in the prior status, except that an enlisted man entitled to a clothing allowance under subsection A9(b) on first reporting for active duty shall not be so entitled.

6. An enlisted man first reporting for active duty in a status entitling him only to an issue of clothing in kind in accordance with subsection A7 hereof, upon subsequent transfer to, or reenlistment within   of last discharge in, another status which, in the case of a first enlistment or reporting for active duty, would entitle him to a cash clothing allowance as prescribed in subsection A1 hereof, shall be entitled to a credit of such cash clothing allowance without regard to issues in kind in the prior status.

7. Enlisted personnel described in subsection  ), upon discharge from   (inactive) for the purpose of enlisting in   or   within   from date of such discharge, shall, if reenlisted in any of the applicable ratings, be entitled to a further cash allowance equal to the difference between the cash allowance payable under subsection A1(a) hereof, and the amount payable under subsection  ), and such enlisted personnel shall, if enlisted in other ratings in   or  , within   from date of such discharge, be entitled to the cash allowances prescribed in subsection  ) hereof.

Section C. Quarterly Maintenance Allowance.

1. The   maintenance allowance prescribed in section A hereof shall be payable on   to:

(a) Enlisted men entitled to a clothing allowance under subsections 1, 2,  ,  ,  , or 10 of section A, or subsections B5 and B7 hereof, or who were entitled to a clothing allowance under Executive Order 9356 of  , (1) as amended, commencing with   following the first anniversary of the date on which they were last entitled to such clothing allowance.

(b) Enlisted men of the   and   reenlisting within   from date of last discharge, enlisted men of the   components transferred to  , and enlisted men of the Regular and   components on active duty transferred to the   or to   and retained on active duty or recalled to active duty within   of release therefrom, at the rate applicable prior to such discharge, transfer, retirement, or release, until entitled to a further clothing allowance.

2. Enlisted men of   undergoing training leading to a commission, enlisted men of   (inactive) and enlisted men holding temporary appointments to warrant or commissioned rank shall not be entitled to   maintenance allowances. Enlisted men entitled to a clothing allowance on   shall not be entitled to any   maintenance allowance otherwise due them on that date.

This order shall supersede Executive Orders No. 9744-B of  , No. 9785 of October 1,  , and No. 9869 of  , and shall be effective as of  , and continue in effect for  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
