Executive Order  —Possession, Control, and Operation of the  ,  
 
 

WHEREAS the President of  , in the exercise of the powers conferred upon him by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the act of  , 39 Stat. 645, and the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), by Executive   dated  , directed the Director of   to take immediate possession of the property of the  ,   (therein referred to as the  ,  ) for and on behalf of   and to operate or to arrange for the operation of the said railroad in such manner as he deemed necessary for the successful prosecution of the war; and

WHEREAS pursuant to the said Executive  , the Director of  , on  , through duly designated and authorized officers and agents, took possession of the property of the said  ,   and since that date has continued in the possession of and has operated the said railroad for and on behalf of   in accordance with the said  , as amended by Executive Order 9320, dated  ; and

WHEREAS from  , to  , the Director of   operated the said railroad subject to Executive Order  , dated  ; and

WHEREAS on  , in over-ruling a motion to dismiss a suit instituted by the  ,   against agents of the Director of  ,   of   for the Southern District of Illinois, Northern Division, handed down an opinion stating that in view of Executive Order   the President of   has not authorized the Director of   to continue in possession of and to operate the railroad in accordance with Executive Order  .

WHEREAS for the reasons set forth in Executive Order  , it has at all times since  , been, and continues to be, essential that the railroad remain in the possession of, and be operated by and for,   in order to assure successful prosecution of the war; and

WHEREAS it is desirable to remove all doubt as to the authority of the Director of   with respect to his possession, control, and operation of the railroad prior to this date, and his authority to continue in the possession, control, and operation of the railroad:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including the act of  , 39 Stat. 645, and the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the   and  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All acts performed by the Director of   and his duly designated and authorized officers and agents since  , with respect to the possession, control, and operation of the railroad in reliance upon and in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order  , as amended by Executive Order 9320, are hereby approved, ratified, confirmed, and adopted as taken by and for  .

2. The Director of   is authorized and directed to continue in possession of the railroad and to operate or to arrange for it operation in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order  , as amended by Executive Order 9320.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
