Executive Order 10263—Transfer of the Panama Canal (The Waterway), Together with Facilities and Appurtenances Related Thereto, and   and Appurtenances Maintained and Operated by the Panama Canal (the  ), to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 81 of title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, as amended by section 3 of the act of  , 50 Stat. 487, and by section 256 of title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, as added by section 10 of the act of  , 64 Stat.  , and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There are hereby transferred to  , a corporate agency and instrumentality of   which upon the effective date of this order shall, pursuant to the said act of  , be known as  , (a) the Panama Canal (the waterway), together with all the facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements related thereto, and (b) all other facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements whatsoever now maintained and operated by The Panama Canal, an independent agency of   which upon the effective date of this order shall, pursuant to the said act of  , be known as   Provided, however, that there are excepted from such transfer the following-described facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements, situated on the Isthmus of  , which shall be for use and administration by the agency which upon the effective date of this order shall, pursuant to the said act of  , be known as  (a) The following-described buildings and structures situated in the Canal Zone:

(1)  . No.  ), Cristobal.

(2)   and   ( . Nos.   and 0610-B),  .

(3)   (Bldg. No. 320),  .

(4)  . No. 16),  .

(b) All buildings and structures of  .

(c) The following-described classes of civic buildings and structures:

(1) Schoolhouses and such recreational buildings and structures as are maintained in connection with the schools' program.

(2) Police buildings and structures.

(3) Prison buildings and structures.

(4) Fire stations and related structures.

(5) Courthouses.

(6) Post office buildings

(d) Those general improvements in permanent town sites in the Canal Zone which consist of grading, excavation, fills, and landscaping.

(e) The improvements consisting of roads, streets, and sidewalks.

(f) The sewerage systems in the Canal Zone.

(g) The street lighting systems.

(h) The cemeteries in the Canal Zone.

 . 2. There are hereby transferred to   (a) all property other than facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements, (b) all records, (c) all other assets, and (d) all contracts obligations, and liabilities of The Panama Canal immediately prior to the effective date of this order, with the exception of (a) property other than facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements, (b) records, (c) other assets, and (d) contracts, obligations, and liabilities, shown in the accounts and records of The Panama Canal as of  , as appertaining to civil government, including health, sanitation, and protection: Provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed as effecting a transfer to   of any of the unobligated balance of the appropriation for "Construction of additional facilities, Panama Canal" remaining on  .

 . 3. There are hereby transferred to   all of the personnel on the rolls of The Panama Canal immediately prior to the effective date of this order with the exception of the Governor of The Panama Canal and of the personnel of  , the courts,  ,  , and the   unit.

 . 4. Nothing in this order shall be construed as effecting a transfer to   of any of the right, title, or interest of   in or to the lands in the Canal Zone, or in or to any of the lands now owned by   and held by The Panama Canal as custodian in territory under the jurisdiction of  .

 . 5. The transfers to   made by this order shall, as provided by law, be deemed to have been accepted and assumed by the said company without the necessity of any act or acts on the part of the company except as otherwise stipulated in section 246 of title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, as added by the act of  , 62 Stat.  .

 . 6. In view of the transfers made by this order, and in effectuation of the purposes of the said act of  , there are hereby revoked (a) section 17 of Executive Order No.   of  , and (b) the order of the Secretary of War designated as Canal Zone Order No. 4 of  , the provisions of which section and order relate to the assignment of, and rental rates for, quarters furnished employees, and the rates to be charged for supplies and services related to quarters.

 . 7. The transfers effected by this order are hereby made subject to the reservation that the President may hereafter make such adjustments or corrections in respect of such transfers as he may deem necessary or expedient.

 . 8. This order shall become effective on  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
