Executive  —Terminating   and Transferring Its Functions to  
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the Trading with the Enemy Act of  , 40 Stat. 411, as amended,   of  , 60 Stat. 418, a amended, section 1753 of the Revised Statutes,  , 22 Stat. 403, and section 101(b) of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of  , 61 Stat. 951, and as President of the United Stares, and in effectuation of those provisions of the General Appropriation Act,  , relating to  , it is ordered as follows:

1.  , established by Executive Order No.  , is hereby terminated. All authority, rights, privileges, powers, duties, and functions vested in such Administration or in   or transferred to delegated thereto are hereby vested in or transferred or delegated to the Attorney General, as the case may be, and shall be administered by him or under his direction and control by such officers and agencies of   as he may designate.

2. All property or interests vested in or transferred to   or the Administrator thereof and all proceeds thereof, which are held or administered by   or the Administrator thereof are hereby transferred to the Attorney General of  .

3. All personnel, records, files, furniture, funds, authorizations, equipment, and supplies of   are hereby transferred to  .

4. All necessary expenses incurred in the administration or operation of the functions, duties, authority, rights, privileges, and power hereby vested in or transferred or delegated to the Attorney General shall be paid, to the extent permitted and in the manner prescribed by law, from funds or property or interests vested in or transferred to the Attorney General by or pursuant to the authority contained in this order, so as to prevent diminution of funds otherwise available for the War Claims Fund under section 39 of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended by section 12 of the act of  . 62 Stat.  .

This order shall become effective at the close of business in  ,  , on  , and shall at that time supersede all prior Executive orders to the extent that they are in conflict with this order.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
