Executive Order  —Establishing   High Commissioner for  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the Statues, including the Foreign Service Act of   (60 Stat. 999), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of   it is ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established the position of   for  , which position shall be that of Chief of Mission, Class 1, in accordance with the provisions of the said Foreign Service Act of  .

2.   High Commissioner for  , hereinafter referred to as the High Commissioner, shall be the supreme   authority in  . The High Commissioner shall have the authority, under the immediate supervision of the Secretary of   9subject, however, to consultation with and ultimate direction by the President), to exercise all of the governmental function of   in   (other than the command of troops), including the representation of   on   for   when established, and the exercise of appropriate functions of a Chief of Mission within the meaning of the foreign Service Act of  .

3. With respect to military matters the Commander of   in   shall continue to receive instructions directly from  . On request of the High Commissioner, such Commander shall take necessary measures for the maintenance of law and order and such other action as is required to support the policy of   in  . If major differences arise over policy affecting military matters, necessary reports and recommendations shall be referred to   and to   for resolution. In the event of an emergency involving the security of   forces in Europe, such Commander may take whatever action he considers essential to safeguard the security of his troops.

4. In the vent that the High Commissioner shall assume his duties in accordance with this Executive Order prior to the date that   of the united Sates Zone of   is terminated, he shall during such interval report to the Secretary of  , through the Secretary of the  , and shall be   Governor with all the powers thereof including those vested in   Governor under all international agreements.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
