Executive Order  —Establishing   and Related Problems
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. In view of the urgency of the solution of various problems relating to the displaced   in Europe and to  , there is hereby established under the Chairmanship of the Secretary of  , a   and   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) composed of the Secretaries of State, War, and the  . The functions and duties of the   shall be:

(a) To assist the President in the early consideration of the recommendations of   (hereinafter referred to as  ) and of the views which may be submitted as a result of the consultations thereon, and in the determination of the steps to be taken by this Government in regard to   and related problems.

(b) To propose the specific measures considered necessary or appropriate effectively to implement the decisions made by the President with regard to   and related problems.

(c) So far as may be permitted by law, to implement and coordinate, either directly or through the appropriate departments and agencies of  , such policies or programs in respect of   and related problems as may be approved and authorized by the President.

(d) To perform such other tasks in connection with the functions and duties described in subparagraphs (a), (b), and (c) above as the President may from time to time direct.

2. Each member of the   shall designate a fully deputized alternate to act for and in his behalf. The alternates thus selected shall function as the executive agency of the   and shall be known as  , whose Chairman shall be the alternate for the Secretary of  . The   is hereby empowered:

(a) To fix its rules of conduct and procedures and the pattern of its internal organization.

(b) To employ a   to be headed by a Secretary-General with such deputies and assistants and such clerical and administrative personnel as may be necessary.

(c) To utilize to the maximum extent possible by way of loan or otherwise such personnel, facilities, and services of  , and   Departments as may be necessary or useful to the   in the accomplishment of its functions and duties.

(d) Subject to subparagraph (c) hereof and within the limits of funds which may be made available to it, to employ necessary technical personnel, consultants, or advisers without regard to the civil service laws and regulations, and to make provision for such supplies, facilities, and services as may be necessary fully to discharge the  's responsibilities.

(e) Whenever necessary, to call upon the heads of other departments and agencies of the Government to supply experts or technical advisers to the extent available to assist the   or its staff in connection with its objectives.

3. In the formulation of its policy recommendations as provided in paragraph 1 hereof and in the implementation of any policies and programs approved by the President, the   shall be empowered:

(a) To negotiate and consult, directly or through its representatives, with accredited representatives and agencies of other governments, with public or private international bodies, with   and municipalities and private and quasi-public organizations in   or abroad.

(b) Upon the written request of the Chairman, or his alternate, to procure from all departments and agencies of the Government such records and documents in their possession as may be necessary, relevant, or useful to the   in the accomplishment of its objectives hereunder.

4. In carrying out its functions and duties, and within the limits of available funds, the members of the   and its personnel are authorized to engage in the necessary domestic and foreign travel. When permitted by law and otherwise practicable, the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   shall provide appropriate travel assistance, including the furnishing of available Government-owned transportation and other facilities.

 

 ,

 
