Executive Order 9744-B—Regulations Governing the Furnishing of Clothing in Kind Or Payment of Cash Allowances in Liew Thereof to   of the  ,  ,  , and  
 
 

By virtue and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 10 of the Pay Readjustment Act of   (56 Stat.359, 363), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the furnishing of clothing in kind, or payment of cast allowances in lieu thereof, to enlisted personnel of the  ,  ,  , and  .

Section A. Clothing in Kind or Cash Allowances in  .

Enlisted men on active duty shall be entitled to clothing in kind or payment of cash allowances in lieu thereof as follows:

TABLE

Section B. Clothing Allowance.

1. The amount of the cash clothing allowances prescribe in subsection A1(6)hereof shall be payable on date of first enlistment or first reporting for active duty, and on date of reenlistment or recall to active duty subsequent to expiration of   from date of last discharge or release from active duty, shall not actually be paid prior to the expiration of   from and including such dates, or date of completion of recruit training, or date of advancement to chief petty officer or assignment to band, whichever is earlier. In closing the accounts of a man discharged or released from active duty within   period , credit shall be made only of an amount equal to the value of the clothing actually drawn, but in case to exceed the total allowance payable.

2. For the purposes of this order, an enlistment in any of the services mention in section A subsequent to discharge from any other of such services shall be considered an reenlistment. An allowance under subsection A1 shall not be payable upon reenlistment within   from date of last discharge or upon recall to active duty within   release therefrom, except as specified in subsections 5, 6 and 7 of this section. A man reenlisted or recalled to active duty within   of last discharge or release from active duty, who on date of such discharge or released was checked undrawn clothing allowance in accordance with subsection 1 of this section, shall be entitled to credit for such undrawn clothing allowance.

3. The allowance under subsection A2 shall not be payable to-

(a) Enlisted men advanced in rating to chief petty officer while holding a temporary appointment to warrant or commissioned rank.

(b) Cooks or stewards on advancement to chief cook or steward.

(c) Members of  ,  , or   (band members) upon advancement in rating to chief petty officer.

4. An enlisted man reduced in rating from chief petty officer, cook or steward, shall not be required to refund payment previously made in accordance with subsection  ; and shall not be entitled to a second payment on subsequent advancement, or to a payment of   maintenance allowance prior to the date specified in subsection   (a) hereof.

5. An enlisted man first reporting for active duty in a status entitling him only to an issue of clothing in kind in accordance with subsection   and A9 (b) hereof, upon subsequent transfer to, or reenlistment within   of last discharge in, another status which, in case of first enlistment or reporting for active duty, would entitle him to a cash clothing allowance as prescribed in subsection A1 hereof, shall be entitled to a credit of such cash clothing allowance without regard to issues in kind in the prior status, except that an enlisted man entitled to a clothing allowance under subsection A9 (b) on first reporting for active duty in time of war or national emergency shall not be so entitled.

6. An enlisted man first reporting for active duty in a status entitling him only to an issue of clothing in kind in accordance with subsection A7 hereof, upon subsequent transfer to, or reenlistment within   of last discharge in, another status which, in the case of a first enlistment or reporting for active duty, would entitle him to a case clothing allowance as prescribed in subsection A1 hereof, shall be entitled to a credit of such cash clothing allowance without regard to issues in kind in the prior status.

7. Enlisted personnel described in subsection A9 (a), upon discharge from   (inactive) for the purpose of enlisting in   or   within   from date of such discharge, shall, if reenlisted in any of the applicable ratings, be entitled to a further cash allowance equal to the difference between the cash allowance payable under subsection   (a) hereof, and the amount payable under subsection A9 (a), and such enlisted personnel shall, if enlisted in other ratings in   or  , within   from date of such discharge, be entitled to the cash allowances prescribed in subsection   (b) hereof.

Section C. Quarterly Maintenance Allowance.

1. The   maintenance allowance prescribed in section A hereof shall be payable on   to:

(a) Enlisted men entitled to a clothing allowance under subsections 1, 2,  ,  ,  , or 10 of section A, or subsections B5 and B7 hereof, or who are entitled to a clothing allowance under Executive Order 9356 of  , as amended, commencing with   following the first anniversary of the date on which they were last entitled to such clothing allowance.

(b) Enlisted men of the   and   reenlisting within   from date of last discharge, enlisted men of the   components transferred to  , and enlisted men of the Regular and   components on active duty transferred to the   or to   and retained on active duty or recalled to active duty within   of release therefrom, at the rate applicable prior to such discharge, transfer, retirement or release, until entitle to a further clothing allowance.

2. Enlisted men of   undergoing training leading to a commission, enlisted men of   (inactive) and enlisted men holding temporary appointments to warrant or commissioned rank shall not be entitled to   maintenance allowances. Enlisted men entitled to a clothing allowance on   shall not be entitled to any   maintenance allowance otherwise due them on that date.

3. The foregoing provisions of this order shall not be applicable to enlisted members of   of  . Such members hall, however, be entitled to a special   maintenance allowance for clothing in the amount of $12.50, payable on   commencing with   following the first anniversary of the date on which they first report for active duty.

This order shall supersede Executive  .   of June   of     of     of  , and   of  , and shall be in effect for  , except that subsection A10 hereof shall be effective also from  .

HARRY S . TRUMAN

 ,

 
