Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby created a   to be known as  , which shall consist of a Chairman and four other members to be designated by the President.

2. The   is authorized and directed to inquire into

(a) social, economic, health, and educational conditions among migratory workers, both alien and domestic, in  ;

(b) problems created by the migration of workers, for temporary employment, into  , pursuant to the immigration laws or otherwise;

(c) responsibilities now being assumed by  , county and municipal authorities with respect to alleviating the conditions among migratory workers, both alien and domestic;

(d) whether sufficient numbers of local and migratory workers can be obtained from domestic sources to meet agricultural labor needs and, if not, the extent to which the temporary employment of foreign workers may be required to supplement the domestic labor supply; and

(e) the extent of illegal migration of foreign workers into   and the problems created thereby, and whether, and in what respect, current law enforcement measures and the authority and means possessed by  , and local governments may be strengthened and improved to eliminate such illegal migration.

3. The   shall make a report of its studies to the President in writing not  , including its recommendations for   acti9on, either legislative or administrative.

4. In connection with its studies and inquiries, the   is authorized to hold such publ8ic hearings and to hear such witnesses as it deems appropriate.

5. To the extent that the studies, inquiries, and recommendations of the   involve considerations of international arrangements and policies the   shall consult with  .

6. All executive departments and agencies of   are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   in its work and to furnish the   such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its duties.

7. During  , the compensation of the members of the   (including traveling expenses and per-diem allowances) and the expenditures of the   shall be paid out of an allotment made by the President from the appropriation appearing under the heading "Emergency Fund for the President: in  ,   (Public Law 266, approved  ); and during   such compensation and expenditures shall be similarly paid from any corresponding or like appropriation made available for  . Such payments shall be made without regard to the provisions of section 3681 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 672), section 9 of the Act of  , 35 Stat.   (31 U.S.C. 673) and such other provisions of law as the President may hereafter specify.

8.   after rendition of its report to the President, the   shall cease to exist unless otherwise determined by further Executive Order.

 

 ,

 
