Executive Order  —Amendment of Executive Order No. 4601 of  ,   to the Award of the Distinguished Flying Cross
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 12 of the act of  , 44 Stat. 789, as amended by section 4 of the act of  , 50 Stat. 549, and in consonance with the act of  , Public Law 501, 81st  , it is ordered as follows:

1. Paragraph 8 of Executive Order No. 4601 of  , prescribing rules and regulations pertaining to the award of  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

"(a) For any act of heroism or extraordinary achievement performed on or before  ,   shall not be awarded after  , nor unless the recommendation therefor shall have been made on or before  . For any such act of achievement performed subsequent to  , the said decoration shall not be awarded after   from the date of such act or achievement, nor unless the recommendation therefore shall have been made at the time of such act or achievement or within   thereafter: Provided, that for any such act or achievement performed  , and  , the said decoration may be awarded not later than  , in any case in which the written recommendation therefor shall have been made on or before  : And provided further, that for any such act or achievement performed during the period commencing  , and ending t twelve o'clock noon,  , the date of the termination of hostilities of World War II, as proclaimed by Proclamation No. 2714 of   the said decoration may be awarded in any case in which the recommendation therefor shall have been made not  .

"(b) In any case in which a recommendation for the award of   has been lost and such recommendation is alleged to have been made within the applicable period of time prescribed by subdivision (a) of this paragraph, the certificate of an officer or the affidavit of an enlisted man to the effect that the recommendation was made within such applicable period of time and forwarded through official channels, accompanied by a statement of the substance of the recommendation, or preferably a copy thereof, shall be accepted, and the case considered on its merits."

2. Executive  . 9615 of  , making certain time limitations imposed by the said paragraph 8 of Executive Order No. 4601 inapplicable to certain cases, is hereby superseded.

 

 ,

 
