Executive Order  —Amendment of Executive Order No.   of  , Providing for the Transfer of Personnel to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   (22 Stat. 403) and by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of  , and as President of  , it is ordered that Executive Order No.   of  , authorizing the transfer, under certain conditions, of civilian employees in the   branch of   to public international organization sin which   participates, be, and it is hereby, amended in the following respects:

1. Section 1 is amended, effective as of  , by adding at the end thereof the following sentence:

"Any employee so transferred shall, for a period not to exceed   from the date of transfer and while employed by the said international organization, be considered as being on leave of absence from his employment by   Provided, that the employee is subsequently reemployed by   in accordance with section 3 of this order."

2. Section 2, which by its terms became inoperative on  , is revived and amended, effective as of that date, to read as follows:

"Any employee serving under a war-service indefinite appointment who is transferred to a public international organization pursuant to this order and, while serving in such organization and within   from the date of such transfer, is either reached in regular order for probational appointment from a civil-service register appropriate for filling the position in which he was serving or could, with the approval of the head of such agency, have been given a competitive status under   if he had remained in the position in which he last served in a Federal agency, shall be considered as having acquired a competitive status as of the date he is reached for probational appointment or classification. Any employee transferred to a public international organization pursuant to this order who was serving in such organization on  , and had served continuously therein from the date of his transfer shall be considered, so far as Executive Order No.   of  , is concerned, as having been in an active-duty status on  , in the position in   from which he was transferred and as having had continuous service with   from the date of his transfer to  ."

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
