Executive Order 9857-A—Medal for  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of  ,   Stat. 662 Executive Order No. 9637 of  , prescribing rules and regulations for the award of the decoration of the Medal for  , created by the said act, is hereby amended to read as follows:

1. The decoration of the   for Merit shall be awarded only by the President of   or at his direction. Awards of the Medal for Merit may be made to such civilians of the nations prosecuting the war under the joint declaration of   and of other friendly foreign nations as have distinguished themselves by exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services since the proclamation of an emergency by the President on  . Awards of the Medal for Merit made to civilians of foreign nations shall be for the performance of an exceptionally meritorious or courageous act or acts in furtherance of the war efforts of  .

2. There is hereby established the Medal for  , which shall be composed of three members appointed by the President, one of whom shall be designated by the President to act as Chairman of the  .

3. The Medal for   shall receive and consider proposals for the award of the decoration of the Medal for Merit and submit to the President the recommendations of the   with respect thereto. In the case of proposed awards to civilians of foreign nations, such recommendations shall include the recommendations of the Secretary of  .

4. The Medal for   is authorized to prescribe, with the approval of the President, such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this order as may be necessary to accomplish its purposes.

5. Executive Order 9331 of  , and the Medal for   created thereby, are superseded by this order.

6. The   for Merit shall not be awarded for any services relating to the prosecution of World War II performed subsequent to the cessation of hostilities, as proclaimed by Proclamation No. 2714 of  , and no proposal for an award for such services submitted after  , shall be considered by the Medal for  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
