Executive Order  —Transferring the Control and Jurisdiction Over Certain Tracts of Land in   From the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   of  , approved   (49 Stat. 115), and section 32 of   Tenant Act, approved   (50 Stat. 525), and as President of  , it is ordered that the following-described tracts of land in  , acquired under authority of the said Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of   and Executive Order No. 7057 of  , as amended, which tracts are not primarily suitable for cultivation, be, and they are hereby, subject to valid existing rights transferred from the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the   to the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture to be administered for forest purposes in accordance with the provisions of Title III of the said   Tenant Act:

1. RURAL: Parcel of land located in   and   of  ,  , and which forms part of   project named " " containing a net area of 354.33 cuerdas, equivalent to one hundred forty (140) hectares, eighty-three (83) ares and sixty-nine centiares, which is equivalent to 348.01 acres, bounded on the North by Parcel number thirty-two (32) of  , lands of the same   divided by an asphalt road of the self-same farm, parcels numbers    ,  ,  ,   and 47 of the aforesaid  , and by "La Gabina" farm, formerly owned by   and now property of  ; on the South by "La Crucita" farm, formerly owned by   and at present the property of  , also partly by the Pitahaya River which separates lands owned by  ; on the East by lands of  .   and a nameless brook that divides the lands of  ; and on the West by "La Crucita" farm of  , formerly  .  , by lands of  , formerly of  , by lands of  , formerly  .  , by lands of   and by parcel number 112 of  .

The aforesaid parcel is segregated from tract "A" of  , which is described as follows:

RURAL: Tract located in   and   of  ,  , containing a net area of 1,316.08 cuerdas, equivalent to 517 hectares, 26 ares, 72 centiares and   then thousandths of another, after deducting 140.94 cuerdas equivalent to 55 hectares, 39 ares, 66 centiares and   ten thousandths of another, which correspond to two parcels of land located within this tract, one belonging to  . Rios representing 91.42 cuerdas; another belonging to  . Zalduondo with an area of 48.22 cuerdas and the area taken up by   which crosses the tract on the northeast boundary close to the Sabana River and which represents 1.30 cuerdas; it is bounded on the North by lands of  ,  ,  ,  ,  .  ,  ,  , remnants of   owned by  ,  , formerly  ,  , formerly  ,  ,  , and other lands belonging to   and Eladio Rodriguez; on the South by lands of  . Matienzo, lands of  , Sucn,   and  ; on the East, by lands of  ,  ,  . Resto divided by a brook,  , formerly  ; and on the West by  , lands of  .  ,  ,  .  ,  ,  . E. Rodriguez and lands of  . This tract is crossed approximately through its center by the Pitahaya River in a southeast-northwest direction. It is also crossed by various private roads.

This tract was obtained by the   through purchase from Mr.  , as attested by deed number five (5) dated   before the Notary Carlos del Toro Fernandez.

The above-described land is recorded in   at  ,  , at folio 8, volume 26, farm number 913, inscription 5th.

2. RURAL: Parcel located in   of the Municipality of Rio Piedras and which forms part of   Project named "San Just", comprising a net area of 27.9275 cuerdas, equivalent to 10 hectares, 97 ares, 65 centiares and 96 one thousandths; bounded on the North by lands belonging to  ; on the South by parcels numbers 218 to 224, inclusive, and parcels numbers 266 to 271, inclusive, of   and by  ; on the East by lands of   and  ; and on the West by lands of   and  .

The aforesaid parcel is segregated from Tract "B" of the San Just Project located in   of the Municipality of Rio Piedras and contains 66   and  , equivalent to 26 hectares, 20 ares, 67 centiares and  ; it is bounded on the North by lands of   and  .  ; on the South by a ridge that divides the municipality of   and which in turn separates a part of this tract located in   of   known as Tract "D"; on the East by lands of   and the brook that divides the lands from the part of this tract located in   of  , known as Tract "A"; and on the West by lands of  , the line of which partly crosses a brook, and also by lands of  , formerly owned by  , which land is divided by a brook, and also bounded on the West by lands of  , formerly owned by   and by lands of  .  .

This tract was obtained by the   through purchase from Mr.   who appeared in behalf of and representing Mrs.  , as attested by deed number 13, dated  , before  .

The above-described land is recorded in   at  ,  , at folio 41, volume 90, farm number  , inscription 6th.

 

 ,

 
