Executive Order  —Establishment of the Clemency and Parole Board for War Criminals
 
 

By the virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the  , and as President of   and as Commander in Chief of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established a   and Parole Board for War Criminals (hereinafter referred to as the Board). The   shall consist of three members, appointed by the President, one of whom shall be designated from  , one from  , and one from  . Each member shall designate an officer or employee of his department as an alternate member of the  , who while participating as a member of the   shall have the same status and functions as the member designating him.

2. The Board shall make the necessary investigation in, and advise the President with respect to, those cases in which a decision of   is required on recommendation by   for clemency, reduction of sentence, or parole, with respect to sentences imposed on   war criminals by tribunals established by   or by   for the Far East. In making its investigations, the   may examine witnesses and take testimony to the extent deemed necessary or advisable.

3. The   shall determine its own procedure and shall act by majority vote. The member designated from  , or his alternate, shall serve as Chairman.   may prescribe rules and regulations deemed necessary or desirable for the purposes of this order.

4. Consonant with law, including section 214 of the Act of May3,  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691), each member and alternate member of the   shall receive from the apartment from which he is designated his compensation as an officer or employee of that department but shall receive no additional compensation by reason of service as a member or alternate member of the  , and   shall furnish the   necessary accommodation and facilities. So much of the other expenditures of the   (including such travel expenses of, and other expense allowances for, members and alternate members of the   as the President shall hereafter fix) as may be within the limits of an allotment to be made by the President from the appropriation entitled "Emergency Fund for the President-National Defense" in Title I of the 1953 (Public Law 455, 82nd  , approved  ), shall be paid from the said allotment. Payments from such allotment shall be made without regard to provisions of (a) section 3681 of the Revised Statues (31 U.S.C. 672), (b) section 9 of the Act of  , 35 Stat.   (31 U.S.C. 673), and (c) such other laws as the President may hereafter specify.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
