116 SRES 98 IS: SFC Sean Cooley and SPC Christopher Horton Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program Resolution
U.S. Senate
2019-03-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
116th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 98
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 6, 2019
Mrs. Blackburn
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules and Administration
RESOLUTION
Establishing the Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program for the placement in offices of
Senators of children, spouses, and siblings of members of the Armed Forces
who are hostile casualties or who have died from a training-related
injury.
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
SFC Sean Cooley and SPC Christopher Horton Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program Resolution
.
2.
Congressional Gold Star Fellowship Program
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
eligible individual
means an individual who is the child (including a stepchild), spouse, or sibling of a member of the Armed Forces who is a hostile casualty or died from a training-related injury;
(2)
the terms
hostile casualty
and
training-related injury
have the meanings given those terms in section 2402(b) of title 38, United States Code; and
(3)
the term
Program
means the Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program established under subsection (b).
(b)
Establishment
There is established in the Senate the Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program, under which an eligible individual may serve a 12-month fellowship in the office of a Senator.
(c)
Direction of Program
The Program shall be carried out under the direction of the Secretary of the Senate.
(d)
Placement in District of Columbia office or a State office
An individual may serve a fellowship under the Program at the office of a Senator in the District of Columbia or an office of the Senator in the State the Senator represents.
(e)
Regulations
The Program shall be carried out in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
