Section 1

.

Purpose

. Federal regulations should not predetermine economic winners and losers. Yet some regulations operate to exclude new market entrants. Regulations that reduce competition, entrepreneurship, and innovation—as well as the benefits they create for   consumers—should be eliminated. This order commences the process for eliminating anti-competitive regulations to revitalize the   economy.

 . 2

.

Definitions

. (a) "Agency" has the meaning given to it in section   of title  , United States Code, except that it does not include   of the President or any components thereof.

(b) "Agency head" means the highest-ranking official of an agency, such as the Secretary, Administrator, Chairman, or Director, unless otherwise specified in this order.

 . 3

.

 

. (a) Agency heads shall, in consultation with the Chairman of   (Chairman) and the Attorney General, complete a review of all regulations subject to their rulemaking authority and identify those that:

(i) create, or facilitate the creation of, de facto or de jure monopolies;

(ii) create unnecessary barriers to entry for new market participants;

(iii) limit competition between competing entities or have the effect of limiting competition between competing entities;

(iv) create or facilitate licensure or accreditation requirements that unduly limit competition;

(v) unnecessarily burden the agency's procurement processes, thereby limiting companies' ability to compete for procurements; or

(vi) otherwise impose anti-competitive restraints or distortions on the operation of the free market.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, agency heads shall each provide to the Chairman and the Attorney General a list of regulations identified by the categories specified in subsection (a) of this section. Agency heads shall also include a recommendation as to whether each of the listed regulations warrants rescission or modification in light of its anti-competitive effects. For recommended modifications, agency heads shall briefly specify what modification is appropriate. For regulations that are anti-competitive by design, agency heads shall provide a justification for their anti-competitive effects if the agency head is not proposing rescission or modification.

(c) In conducting the review required by subsection (a) of this section, agency heads shall prioritize review of those rules that satisfy the definition of "significant regulatory action" in Executive Order   ( ), as amended.

(d) Within   of this order, the Chairman shall issue a request for information ( ) that seeks public input on the identification of regulations that fall within the categories specified in subsection (a) of this section, as well as comments explaining the proposed classifications. The request shall remain open for  . Upon the close of the RFI period, the Chairman shall convey any relevant responses to the agency with rulemaking authority over the identified regulation.

(e) Within   of receipt of the agency lists specified in subsection (b) of this section, the Chairman, in consultation with the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the relevant agency heads, shall provide to the Director of   (OMB Director) a consolidated list of regulations that warrant rescission or modification in light of their anti-competitive effects, along with recommended modifications. The Chairman may include on the consolidated list regulations not originally included on an agency list if such regulations fall within at least one of the categories outlined in subsections ( ) of this section.

(f) Upon receipt of the consolidated list described in subsection (e) of this section, the   Director, through  , shall consult with the Chairman, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the relevant agency heads to decide whether to incorporate the proposed rescissions or modifications into the Unified Regulatory Agenda developed pursuant to Executive Order   of   (Ensuring Lawful Governance and Implementing the President's " ).

 . 4.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
