Section 1. Purpose

.   will host the   Summer Olympics, one of the most prominent international sports events of  . This extraordinary occasion offers a powerful opportunity to showcase   strength, pride, and patriotism while welcoming the world to our shores.   will lead a unified effort to ensure maximum safety, secure borders, and world-class transportation for millions of visitors throughout the   Summer Olympic and   (Games).

 . 2. Establishing   on the   Summer Olympics

. (a) There is hereby established   on the   Summer Olympics (Task Force).

(b) The President shall serve as  , and the Vice President shall serve as Vice Chair.

(c) The   shall designate an Executive Director, who shall administer and execute the day-to-day operations of  , and who shall report to the   through the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Implementation. The Chair, the Vice Chair, or a member of   designated by the  , shall convene regular meetings of  , determine its agenda, and direct its work, consistent with this order. The Executive Director and the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Implementation shall assist in the performance of these duties. The   may designate any member of   to preside over meetings of  .

(d) In addition to the   and Vice Chair, the Task Force shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Attorney General;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff;

(ix) the Assistant to the President for  ;

(x) the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff;

(xi) the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and  ;

(xii) the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Legislative, Political and Public Affairs;

(xiii) the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications and   Secretary;

( ) the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Implementation;

(xv) the Director of  ;

(xvi) the Chairman of  ; and

(xvii) the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and offices that the   or the Vice Chair may, from time to time, designate or invite to participate.

(e) The Task Force shall coordinate with executive departments and agencies (agencies) to assist in the planning, organization, and execution of the events surrounding the Games. Agencies shall provide information and assistance useful and necessary to  .

(f) For administrative purposes, the Task Force shall be housed in  , which shall provide funding and administrative support for  .

(g) Agency heads serving as members of the Task Force shall each provide a report to   regarding their agency's respective planning and activities concerning the Games. These reports shall be submitted to the Executive Director of   no later than October 1,  .

(h) The Task Force shall terminate on  , unless extended by the President.

 . 3. Functions

. The Task Force shall:

(a) coordinate Federal planning and response related to the security, transportation, and entry/exit processes for the Games;

(b) support interagency cooperation and information-sharing with   and local partners;

(c) identify legal, logistical, or regulatory barriers that could impede effective Federal support for the Games and recommend timely solutions;

(d) assist in the planning and implementation of visa processing and credentialing programs for foreign athletes, coaches, officials, and media personnel; and

(e) ensure operational readiness across law enforcement, counterterrorism, transportation, and emergency response functions.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
