Section 1. Purpose and Policy

.   has long led the world in innovation, technological advancement, and design. But with a sprawling ecosystem of digital services offered to  , the   has lagged behind in usability and aesthetics. There is a high financial cost to maintaining legacy systems, to say nothing of the cost in time lost by the   public trying to navigate them. It is time to fill the digital potholes across our  .

With this order, I am announcing "America by Design," a national initiative to improve experiences for  , starting by breathing new life into the design of sites where people interface with their Government. It is time to update the  's design language to be both usable and beautiful. This effort will be facilitated by a new   and by a new Chief Design Officer. The Chief Design Officer will help recruit top creative talent, coordinate with executive departments and agencies (agencies), and devise innovative solutions.

It is the policy of my Administration to deliver digital and physical experiences that are both beautiful and efficient, improving the quality of life for our Nation. Towards that end,   will advise agencies on how to reduce duplicative design costs, use standardized design to enhance the public's trust in high-impact service providers, and dramatically improve the quality of experiences offered to the   public.

 . 2.   by Design and  . (a) There is established a national initiative,   by Design, to improve comprehensively the visual presentation and usability of Federal services provided to the public in both digital and physical spaces, creating first-class online and offline experiences for  .

(b) To help facilitate the   by Design initiative, there is established within   of the President   ( ) and, within the  , a new position entitled the Chief Design Officer. The   shall be led by an Administrator, who shall report to   Chief of Staff. There is further established within the  , in accordance with section   of title 5, United States Code, a temporary organization headed by   and dedicated to helping advance the   by Design initiative. The temporary organization shall terminate   from the date of this order, but that termination shall not be interpreted to imply the termination, attenuation, or amendment of any other authority or provision of this order.

 . 3. Implementing America by Design

. (a) Heads of agencies shall consult with the Chief Design Officer to implement the   by Design initiative at their respective agencies and shall produce initial results by  .

(i) Heads of agencies shall prioritize improving websites and physical sites that have a major impact on  ' everyday lives.

(ii)   shall consult with the Chief Design Officer to update   Web Design System consistent with the policies set forth in this order.

(iii) Heads of agencies shall consult with the Chief Design Officer to ensure Government-wide compliance with  .

(b) The Chief Design Officer shall consult with thought leaders and research and design firms on how best to implement the   by Design initiative. In order to employ the most talented designers of our generation to serve their country, the Chief Design Officer shall help recruit designers and other experts from the private sector as well as other sources of expertise. Heads of agencies shall use all relevant hiring authorities to facilitate this effort, including title IV of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of  , Public Law 91–648, 5 U.S.C.  

et seq

.

(c) The Chief Design Officer shall consult with the Director of  , as appropriate, in carrying out his or her obligations under this order.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
