Section 1

.

Purpose

. It is the policy of my Administration to dramatically reduce the size of  , while increasing its accountability to the   people. This order commences a reduction in the elements of the   bureaucracy that the President has determined are unnecessary. Reducing the size of   will minimize Government waste and abuse, reduce inflation, and promote   freedom and innovation.

 . 2

.

Reducing the Scope of the Federal Bureaucracy

. (a) The non-statutory components and functions of the following governmental entities shall be eliminated to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, and such entities shall reduce the performance of their statutory functions and associated personnel to the minimum presence and function required by law:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)   African Development Foundation; and

(iv)  .

(b) Within   of this order, the head of each unnecessary governmental entity listed in subsection (a) of this section shall submit a report to the Director of   (OMB Director) confirming compliance with this order and stating whether the governmental entity, or any components or functions thereof, are statutorily required and to what extent.

(c) In reviewing budget requests submitted by the governmental entities listed in subsection (a) of this section, the OMB Director or the head of any executive department or agency charged with reviewing grant requests by such entities shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law and except insofar as necessary to effectuate an expected termination, reject funding requests for such governmental entities to the extent they are inconsistent with this order.

(d) The Presidential Memorandum of   (Need for Greater Coordination of Regional and Field Activities of the Government), is hereby revoked. The Director of   (OPM Director) is directed to initiate the process to withdraw the regulations at title 5, part 960, Code of Federal Regulations, thereby eliminating the Federal Executive Boards.

(e) The   Director is directed to initiate the process to withdraw the regulations at title 5, part 362, subpart D, Code of Federal Regulations, and to take any other steps necessary to promptly terminate  . On the effective date of the final regulations promulgated by the   Director, Executive Order   of  , is revoked and Executive Order  , is amended by:

(i) striking from section 2 the words "along with  , as modified herein,";

(ii) striking section 5;

(iii) striking from section 6(b) the words "or  " and inserting in their place "program";

(iv) striking from section 7(b)(iii) the words "the competitive service of  , or PMFs (or a Government-wide combined conversion cap applicable to all three categories together)" and inserting in their place "the competitive service of   (or a Government-wide combined conversion cap applicable to both categories together)"; and

(v) redesignating sections 6,  ,  , and 9 as sections 5,  ,  , and 8 respectively.

(f) Within   of this order, the following heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall take the following actions with respect to the following   within their respective agencies:

(i) the Administrator of     shall terminate   on Voluntary Foreign Aid;

(ii) the Director of   shall terminate   and  ;

(iii)   of   shall terminate  ;

(iv) the Secretary of   shall terminate the Secretary's  ; and

(v) the Administrator of the Centers for   and   shall terminate  .

(g) Within   of the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall identify and submit to the President additional unnecessary governmental entities and   that should be terminated on grounds that they are unnecessary.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
