Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy

. It is the policy of  , and the purpose of this order, to protect the religious freedoms of   and end the   weaponization of government. The Founders established a Nation in which people were free to practice their faith without fear of discrimination or retaliation by their government.

For that reason,   enshrines the fundamental right to religious liberty in the First Amendment. Federal laws like the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000bb

et seq

.), further prohibit government interference with  ' rights to exercise their religion. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), prohibits religious discrimination in employment while Federal hate-crime laws prohibit offenses committed due to religious animus.

Yet the previous   engaged in an egregious pattern of targeting peaceful  , while ignoring violent,   offenses.   sought to squelch faith in the public square by bringing Federal criminal charges and obtaining in numerous cases   prison sentences against nearly two dozen peaceful pro-life   for praying and demonstrating outside abortion facilities. Those convicted included a   priest and   grandmother, as well as an   woman and a father of 11 children who were arrested   after praying and singing hymns outside an abortion facility in   as a part of a politically motivated prosecution campaign by  . I rectified this injustice on  , by issuing pardons in these cases.

At the same time,   churches, charities, and pro-life centers sought justice for violence, theft, and arson perpetrated against them, which   largely ignored. After more than 100 attacks,   passed a resolution condemning this violence and calling on   to enforce the law.

Then, in  ,  ) memorandum asserted that "radical-traditionalist"   were domestic-terrorism threats and suggested infiltrating   churches as "threat mitigation." This later-retracted   memorandum cited as support evidence propaganda from highly partisan sources.

  sought to repeal religious-liberty protections for faith-based organizations on college campuses.   sought to force   to affirm radical transgender ideology against their faith. And   sought to drive   who do not conform to certain beliefs on sexual orientation and gender identity out of the foster-care system.   declared  —Easter Sunday—as "Transgender Day of Visibility."

In this atmosphere of   government, hostility and vandalism against   churches and places of worship surged, with the number of such identified acts in   exceeding by more than eight times the number from  .   churches and institutions have been aggressively targeted with hundreds of acts of hostility, violence, and vandalism.

My Administration will not tolerate   weaponization of government or unlawful conduct targeting  . The law protects the freedom of   and groups of   to practice their faith in peace, and my Administration will enforce the law and protect these freedoms. My Administration will ensure that any unlawful and improper conduct, policies, or practices that target   are identified, terminated, and rectified.

 . 2

.

Establishing a Task Force to Eradicate Anti-Christian Bias

. (a) There is hereby established within   Eradicate Anti-Christian Bias (Task Force).

(b) The Attorney General shall serve as  .

(c) In addition to the  , the Task Force shall consist of the following other members:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Director of  ;

(xi) Representative of   to  ;

(xii) the Administrator of  ;

(xiii) the Director of  ;

( ) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(xv)  ;

(xvi) the Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; and

(xvii) the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and offices that the   may, from time to time, invite to participate.

 . 3

.

Task Force Functions

. (a) The Task Force shall meet as required by the   and shall take appropriate action to:

(i) review the activities of all executive departments and agencies (agencies), including  ,  , including  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , over the previous Administration and identify any unlawful   policies, practices, or conduct by an agency contrary to the purpose and policy of this order;

(ii) recommend to the head of the relevant agency steps to revoke or terminate any violative policies, practices, or conduct identified under subsection (3)(a)(i) of this section and remedial actions to fulfill the purpose and policy of this order;

(iii) share information and develop strategies to protect the religious liberties of   and advance the purpose and policy of this order;

(iv) solicit information and ideas from a broad range of individuals and groups, including   affected by   conduct, faith-based organizations, and  , local, and   governments, in order to ensure that its work is informed by a broad spectrum of ideas and experiences;

(v) identify deficiencies in existing laws and enforcement and regulatory practices that have contributed to unlawful   governmental or private conduct and recommend to the relevant agency head, or recommend to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, as applicable, appropriate actions that agencies may take to remedy failures to fully enforce the law against acts of   hostility, vandalism, and violence; and

(vi) recommend to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, any additional Presidential or legislative action necessary to rectify past improper   conduct, protect religious liberty, or otherwise fulfill the purpose and policy of this order.

(b) In order to advise the President regarding its work and assist the President in formulating future policy, the Task Force shall submit to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy:

(i) a report within   from the date of this order regarding   initial work;

(ii) a report within   from the date of this order that summarizes the Task Force's work; and

(iii) a final report upon the dissolution of  .

 . 4

.

Administration

. (a) The heads of agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, upon the request of the  , provide   with any information required by   for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b)   shall provide such funding and administrative and technical support as   may require, to the extent permitted by law and as authorized by existing appropriations.

 . 5

.

Termination

. The Task Force shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended by the President.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
