Section 1. Background. In Executive Order   of   (Imposing Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border), as amended; Executive Order   of   (Imposing Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern Border), as amended; Executive Order 14195 of   (Imposing Duties To Address the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in  ), as amended; Executive Order 14245 of   (Imposing Tariffs on Countries Importing Venezuelan Oil); Executive Order   (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual  ), as amended; Executive Order   (Addressing Threats to   by  ), as amended; Executive Order   of   (Addressing Threats to   by  ), as amended; Executive Order   (Addressing Threats to   by  ); and Executive Order   of   (Addressing Threats to   by  ), I declared or described national emergencies with respect to unusual and extraordinary threats to the national security, foreign policy, or economy of   and took actions to deal with those threats, including by imposing, pursuant to  , additional ad   duties on certain imports of certain foreign trading partners.

In light of recent events, the additional ad   duties imposed pursuant to IEEPA in Executive Order  , as amended; Executive Order  , as amended; Executive  , as amended; Executive Order  ; Executive Order  , as amended; Executive Order  , as amended; Executive Order  , as amended; Executive Order  ; and Executive Order   shall no longer be in effect and, as soon as practicable, shall no longer be collected. All other actions, including any other action taken to address the national emergencies declared or described in Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive  , Executive  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , that do not impose additional ad   duties under   or involve steps necessary to implement the imposition of additional ad   duties imposed under IEEPA shall not be affected by this order. The national emergencies declared or described in Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive  , Executive  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , and Executive Order   or subsequent orders remain in effect and shall not be affected by this order.

 . 2. Implementation. (a) To effectuate the terminations of the actions described in section 1 of this order, the head of each executive department and agency (agency) is authorized to and shall take all appropriate steps to end the additional ad   duties imposed under   in Executive Order  , as amended; Executive Order  , as amended; Executive  , as amended; Executive Order  ; Executive Order  , as amended; Executive Order  , as amended; Executive Order  , as amended; Executive Order  ; and Executive Order  . The head of each agency shall immediately begin taking steps to effectuate this order and, as soon as practicable, terminate the collection of the additional ad   duties described in section 1 of this order. The head of each agency may, consistent with applicable law, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, redelegate the authority to take such appropriate steps within the agency.

(b) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , as appropriate and in consultation with the Commissioner of  , the Chair of  , and any other senior official they deem appropriate, shall determine whether modifications to   of   are necessary to effectuate this order and may make such modifications through notice in  .

(c) The Executive Order of   (Continuing the Suspension of Duty-Free De Minimis Treatment for All Countries), and the Proclamation of February 20, 2026 ( ), are unaffected by this order.

(d) This order affects only the additional ad   duties imposed under   pursuant to   described in section 1 of this order. This order does not affect any other duties, including duties imposed under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of  , as amended, 19 U.S.C.  , and section 301 of the Trade Act of  , as amended, 19 U.S.C.  .

 . 3.  . (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
