Section 1

.

Purpose

.   foreign aid industry and bureaucracy are not aligned with   interests and in many cases antithetical to   values. They serve to destabilize world peace by promoting ideas in foreign countries that are directly inverse to harmonious and stable relations internal to and among countries.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   that no further   foreign assistance shall be disbursed in a manner that is not fully aligned with the foreign policy of the President of  .

 . 3

. (a)

  pause in   foreign development assistance for assessment of programmatic efficiencies and consistency with   foreign policy

. All department and agency heads with responsibility for   foreign development assistance programs shall immediately pause new obligations and disbursements of development assistance funds to foreign countries and implementing non-governmental organizations, international organizations, and contractors pending reviews of such programs for programmatic efficiency and consistency with   foreign policy, to be conducted within   of this order.   (OMB) shall enforce this pause through its apportionment authority.

(b)

Reviews of   foreign assistance programs

. Reviews of each foreign assistance program shall be ordered by   and agency heads under guidelines provided by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Director of OMB.

(c)

Determinations

. The responsible department and agency heads, in consultation with the Director of OMB, will make determinations within   of this order on whether to continue, modify, or cease each foreign assistance program based upon the review recommendations, with the concurrence of the Secretary of  .

(d)

Resumption of paused development assistance funding

. New obligations and disbursements of foreign development assistance funds may resume for a program prior to     period if a review is conducted, and the Secretary of   or his designee, in consultation with the Director of OMB, decide to continue the program in the same or modified form. Additionally, any other new foreign assistance programs and obligations must be approved by the Secretary of   or his designee, in consultation with the Director of OMB.

(e)

Waiver

. The Secretary of   may waive the pause in Section 3(a) for specific programs.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
