Section 1

.

Purpose

. As Chief Executive and as Commander in Chief, I am committed to meritocracy and to the elimination of race-based and sex-based discrimination within  . No individual or group within our   should be preferred or disadvantaged on the basis of sex, race, ethnicity, color, or creed.

Unfortunately, in   civilian and uniformed leadership alike have implemented  , and   ( ) programs and their attendant race and sex preferences within  . These actions undermine leadership, merit, and unit cohesion, thereby eroding lethality and force readiness. They also violate  ' consciences by engaging in invidious race and sex discrimination.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration that  ,   with regard to   (USCG), and every element of   should operate free from any preference based on race or sex.

 . 3

.

Definitions

. (a) A "  office" means an office, division, job, or other unit of an institution established for the purpose of:

(i) influencing hiring or employment practices at the institution with respect to race, sex, color, or ethnicity, other than through the use of color-blind and sex-neutral hiring processes; or

(ii) promoting differential treatment of or providing special benefits to individuals on the basis of race, sex, color, or ethnicity.

(b) The term "gender ideology" has the meaning given to that term in section 2(f) of   of  , (  from   and   to  ).

(c) The term "divisive concepts" has the meaning given to that term in section 2(a) of Executive Order   of   (Combating Race and Sex Stereotyping).

 . 4

.

Abolishing the DEI Bureaucracy

. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall abolish every   office within   and   with regard to the  , respectively, including any vestiges of   offices, such as sub-offices, programs, elements, or initiatives established to promote a race-based preferences system that subverts meritocracy, perpetuates unconstitutional discrimination, and promotes divisive concepts or gender ideology.

 . 5

.

 . The Secretary of   shall conduct an internal review that documents actions taken in pursuit of   initiatives, including all instances of race and sex discrimination and activities designed to promote a race- or sex-based preferences system. The report shall be delivered to the Secretary of   within   of the date of this order.

 . 6

.

Protecting   Values

. (a)   and  , including any educational institution operated or controlled thereby, are prohibited from promoting, advancing, or otherwise inculcating the following  , divisive, discriminatory, radical, extremist, and irrational theories:

(i) "divisive concepts," as defined in section 3(c) of this order, and "race or sex stereotyping," or "race or sex scapegoating" as both terms are defined in section 2 of Executive Order  , as amended;

(ii) that  's founding documents are racist or sexist; and

(iii) "gender ideology," as defined in section 3(b) of this order.

(b)   and the   shall not hire employees, contractors, or consultants to teach the theories set forth in subsection (a) of this section.

(c) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall carefully review the leadership, curriculum, and instructors of   and other defense academic institutions associated with their respective   to ensure alignment with this order. In addition, these institutions shall be required to teach that   and its founding documents remain the most powerful force for good in human history.

 . 7

.

Implementation

. (a) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall issue detailed guidance for the implementation of this order to their respective departments within   of the date of this order.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall submit a report through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy documenting the progress of their respective   in implementing this order, and any recommendations for action to fulfill the objectives of this order.

 . 8

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 9

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
