Section 1

.

Purpose

. This order creates a process by which certain international cartels (the  ) and other organizations will be designated as Foreign Terrorist Organizations, consistent with section 219 of the INA (8 U.S.C.  ), or  , consistent with   (50 U.S.C. 1702) and Executive Order   of   (Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions With Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism), as amended.

(a) International cartels constitute a national-security threat beyond that posed by traditional organized crime, with activities encompassing:

(i) convergence between themselves and a range of extra-hemispheric actors, from designated foreign-terror organizations to antagonistic foreign governments;

(ii) complex adaptive systems, characteristic of entities engaged in insurgency and asymmetric warfare; and

(iii) infiltration into foreign governments across the Western Hemisphere.

The   have engaged in a campaign of violence and terror throughout the Western Hemisphere that has not only destabilized countries with significant importance for our national interests but also flooded   with deadly drugs, violent criminals, and vicious gangs.

The   functionally control, through a campaign of assassination, terror, rape, and brute force nearly all illegal traffic across the southern border of  . In certain portions of  , they function as quasi-governmental entities, controlling nearly all aspects of society. The  ' activities threaten the safety of the   people, the security of  , and the stability of the international order in the Western Hemisphere. Their activities, proximity to, and incursions into the physical territory of   pose an unacceptable national security risk to  .

(b) Other transnational organizations, such as   ( ) and   ( ) pose similar threats to  . Their campaigns of violence and terror in   and internationally are extraordinarily violent, vicious, and similarly threaten the stability of the international order in the Western Hemisphere.

(c) The   and other transnational organizations, such as   and  , operate both within and outside  . They present an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  . I hereby declare a national emergency, under  , to deal with those threats.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to ensure the total elimination of these organizations' presence in   and their ability to threaten the territory, safety, and security of   through their extraterritorial command-and-control structures, thereby protecting the   people and the territorial integrity of  .

 . 3

.

Implementation

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action, in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , to make a recommendation regarding the designation of any cartel or other organization described in section 1 of this order as a Foreign Terrorist Organization consistent with 8 U.S.C.   and/or a Specially Designated Global Terrorist consistent with 50 U.S.C. 1702 and Executive Order  .

(b) Within   of this order, the Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action, in consultation with the Secretary of  , to make operational preparations regarding the implementation of any decision I make to invoke the Alien Enemies Act, 50 U.S.C. 21

et seq

., in relation to the existence of any qualifying invasion or predatory incursion against the territory of   by a qualifying actor, and to prepare such facilities as necessary to expedite the removal of those who may be designated under this order.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
