Section 1. Purpose

. Unmanned aircraft systems ( ), otherwise known as drones, enhance   productivity, create high-skilled jobs, and are reshaping the future of aviation. Drones are already transforming industries from logistics and infrastructure inspection to precision agriculture, emergency response, and public safety. Emerging technologies such as electric   (eVTOL) aircraft promise to modernize methods for cargo delivery, passenger transport, and other advanced air mobility capabilities.

  must accelerate the safe commercialization of drone technologies and fully integrate   into  . The time has come to accelerate testing and to enable routine drone operations, scale up domestic production, and expand the export of trusted,  -manufactured drone technologies to global markets. Building a strong and secure domestic drone sector is vital to reducing reliance on foreign sources, strengthening critical supply chains, and ensuring that the benefits of this technology are delivered to the   people.

 . 2. Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "agency" has the meaning given to the term in 44 U.S.C. 3502(1).

(b) The terms "unmanned aircraft system" and "drone" have the meaning given to the term "unmanned aircraft system" in 49 U.S.C. 44801(12).

 . 3. Policy

. It is the policy of   to ensure continued   leadership in the development, commercialization, and export of   by:

(a) accelerating the safe integration of   into   through timely, risk-based rulemaking that enables routine advanced operations;

(b) advancing the domestic commercialization of   technologies at scale, including their safe and secure manufacturing, production, and integration, by supporting industry-led innovation, reducing regulatory uncertainty, and streamlining approvals and certification processes, including for consumer goods delivery and environmental reviews; and

(c) strengthening the domestic drone industrial base and promoting the export of trusted,  -manufactured   through updated economic policies and regulation, coordinated trade, financing, and foreign engagement tools.

 . 4. Expanding  

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through   ( ), shall issue a proposed rule enabling routine   Sight ( ) operations for   for commercial and public safety purposes. A final rule shall be published within   of the date of this order, as appropriate.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through    , shall establish clear metrics for assessing the performance and safety of   operations, and within   of the date of this order, shall identify and describe additional regulatory barriers and challenges to   implementation, with recommendations to the President through the Director of   ( ) for addressing such issues expeditiously and informing future rulemaking or legislative actions.

(c) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through    , shall initiate the deployment of artificial intelligence (AI) tools to assist in and expedite the review of   waiver applications under 14   part 107. These   tools shall:

(i) support performance- and risk-based evaluation of proposed operations;

(ii) identify materially similar precedents and recommend consistent mitigation measures;

(iii) assist the   in identifying categories of operations with sufficient safety data or recurring approval patterns that may warrant further rulemaking to eliminate the need for individualized waivers; and

(iv) be used in accordance with guidance on Federal use of   as detailed in   M–25–21.

(d) The Secretary of  , acting through    , shall immediately explore options to ensure that   flights beginning and ending in   airspace, or  -owned facilities in the high seas, can operate without being subject to the onerous requirements applicable to manned aircraft engaging in international navigation as referenced in  .

 . 5.   into  

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through    , shall publish an updated roadmap for the integration of civil   into  .

(b) The Secretary of  , acting through    , shall ensure all FAA UAS Test Ranges are fully utilized to support the development, testing, and scaling of   drone technologies, with a focus on   operations, increasingly autonomous operations, advanced air mobility, and other advanced operations. The Secretary shall prioritize the generation of safety and performance data at   to inform   rulemaking, identify regulatory gaps and operational challenges, and support the integration of emerging   capabilities into  .

 . 6. Establishment of an Electric Vertical Takeoff and  

. (a) The Secretary of  , acting through    , and in coordination with the Director of  , shall establish   (eIPP) as an extension of the   program to accelerate the deployment of safe and lawful eVTOL operations in  .

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through    , shall issue a public request for proposals to  , local, tribal, and territorial governments. Proposals must be submitted within   of the request and include a private sector partner with demonstrated experience in  , manufacturing, and operations.

(ii) Within   of the request, the Secretary of  , acting through    , shall select at least five pilot projects that plan to begin eVTOL operations within   after the date on which any agreement for a pilot project is established. Selection criteria shall include, at a minimum, the use of eVTOL aircraft and technologies developed or offered by  –based entity; overall representation of economic and geographic operations and proposed models of public-private partnership; and overall representation of the operations to be conducted, including advanced air mobility, medical response, cargo transport, and rural access.

(iii) The Secretary of  , acting through    , shall execute agreements with selected applicants, outlining project goals, regulatory needs, timelines, information sharing and data exchange mechanisms, and responsibilities. The Secretary of   shall use all available authorities to the fullest extent to support safe and timely operations under the eIPP.

(iv) Within   after the selection of pilot program participants, the Secretary of   shall submit an initial implementation report to the President through the Director of  , summarizing early-stage planning, interagency coordination, and any immediate regulatory or legislative challenges identified. The Secretary of   shall submit an   report thereafter and, upon program completion, shall submit a final report to the President, through the Director of  , that includes, at a minimum, an evaluation of program goals and outcomes; recommendations for the permanent integration of eVTOL operations into the national airspace; and any proposed future initiatives to maintain   leadership in eVTOL flight.

(v) The eIPP shall conclude   after the date the first pilot project becomes operational, unless the Secretary of   determines that an extension is warranted in the national interest.

(vi) Before and after the conclusion of the eIPP, the Secretary of   shall use the information and experience yielded by the eIPP to inform the development of regulations, initiatives, and plans to enable safe eVTOL operations, and shall, as appropriate, share information with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies.

(vii) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Director of  , may expand this pilot program to other advanced aviation aircraft as warranted.

 . 7. Strengthening  

.

(a) All agencies shall prioritize the integration of   manufactured in   over those made abroad to the maximum extent permitted by law.

(b) In order to protect the integrity of  's drone supply chain and ensure our technology remains secure from undue foreign influence and exploitation, within   of the date of this order,   shall publish a Covered Foreign Entity List, as defined in section 1822(1) of   for   (Public Law 118–31), identifying companies that pose supply chain risks.

(c) To ensure that vital components remain under   control and free from national security risks, within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall take actions, including proposing rulemaking and conducting investigations, to secure   drone supply chain against foreign control or exploitation.

 . 8. Promoting the Export of American-Made Civil Unmanned Aircraft Systems

.

(a) The Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , shall review and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, amend export control regulations within   of the date of this order to enable the expedited export of  -manufactured civil   to foreign partners, provided such end-users and recipient countries are not identified as foreign adversaries and the export does not pose a risk of diversion to programs of concern, or are otherwise restricted under applicable statutes or regulations.

(b) The Secretary of   shall designate the export of  -manufactured civil   as a priority area within   export promotion efforts and shall coordinate interagency initiatives to expand market access, reduce foreign trade barriers, and promote international interoperability.

(c) The Secretary of  , the President of  , the Chief Executive Officer of  , and the Director of   shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law, prioritize and support the export of  -manufactured civil   and related systems through the use of, as appropriate:

(i) direct loans and loan guarantees;

(ii) equity investments and co-financing;

(iii) political risk insurance and credit guarantees;

(iv) technical assistance, feasibility studies, and grant mechanisms;

(v) market access facilitation; and

(vi) any other incentive mechanisms authorized by law.

 . 9. Delivering Drones to Our Warfighters

. (a)   must be able to procure, integrate, and train using low-cost, high-performing drones manufactured in  . The Secretary of   shall:

(i) ensure all platforms on   ( ) Blue UAS List can, as soon as possible and to the fullest extent practicable, operate on all military installations or ranges without requiring an exception to policy;

(ii) within   of the date of this order, expand  's   to include all drones and critical drone components compliant with section 848 of   for   ("FY 2020 NDAA") (Public Law 116–92) to the fullest extent practicable;

(iii) update   on a   basis;

(iv) ensure the procurement of drones compliant with section 848 of the FY 2020 NDAA and made by   companies is prioritized over the procurement of drones made by all other companies to the maximum extent practicable and that exemptions and waivers to section 848 of the FY 2020 NDAA are used only when absolutely necessary to accomplish the mission; and

(v) ensure that compliance with section 848 of the FY 2020 NDAA does not inhibit the rapid adoption of drone technology required to exceed the capabilities of our foreign adversaries.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall coordinate with the Secretary of  , acting through     to streamline the approval processes to expand access to airspace for conducting   training. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , acting through the Assistant Secretary of  , and  , submit a report to the President through the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA) describing any unnecessary barriers to accessing electromagnetic spectrum for conducting   training.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall task the Secretary of each military department to identify programs that would be more cost efficient or lethal if replaced by   and shall submit a report to the President through the APNSA.

 . 10. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
