Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy

. The prior administration's immigration policies inexcusably endangered and caused enormous suffering within our  , including by causing the southern border to be overrun by cartels, criminal gangs, known terrorists, human traffickers, smugglers, unvetted military-age males from foreign adversaries, and illicit narcotics. These open-border policies are responsible for the horrific and inexcusable murders of many innocent   citizens at the hands of illegal aliens.

One of those innocent victims was  , whose life was tragically cut short on  , when she was brutally murdered in  ,  . Two   illegal aliens who were allegedly   gang members and were apprehended near the border in  —and then released into   by the prior administration—have been charged with her murder.   was   girl beloved by her family and friends for her kindness and infectious zeal for life. She loved animals and had a passion for ensuring that they had homes. It is fitting and in the national interest, therefore, that  , a scenic area for coastal wildlife and recreation along the Gulf of America near  's home in  , will forever honor and preserve the memory of a beautiful  ,  .

 . 2

.

Renaming the Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge to Honor Jocelyn Nungaray

. Within   of the date of this order, pursuant to authority under the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee) and other applicable law, the Secretary of the   (Secretary) shall update procedures as necessary and take all other appropriate actions to rename the area known as  " as the "Jocelyn Nungaray National Wildlife Refuge" and ensure that her life is permanently commemorated therein. The Secretary shall subsequently provide guidance to ensure all Federal references to  , including on agency maps, contracts, and other documents and communications, reflect its renaming.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
