Section 1. Background

. In Executive Order   (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual  ), I found that conditions reflected in large and persistent     goods trade deficits, including the consequences of those deficits, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and economy of   that has its source in whole or substantial part outside  . I declared a national emergency with respect to that threat, and to deal with that threat, I imposed certain

ad  

duties that I deemed necessary and appropriate. In Annex II to Executive Order  , I set forth a list of certain goods that, in my judgment, should not be subject to the

ad  

rates of duty imposed pursuant to that order.

In section 4 of Executive Order  , section 5 of Executive Order 14326 of   (Further Modifying the Reciprocal Tariff Rates), and other   issued to address the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , I directed various officials to monitor the circumstances involving the emergency declared in Executive Order   and to recommend to me additional action that would more effectively deal with the emergency conditions described in Executive Order  . Based on this monitoring, among other things, I have received additional information and recommendations from these officials. After considering the information and recommendations these officials have provided to me, among other things, I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to modify   to Executive Order   as shown in the updated version of Annex II that is attached to this order. In my judgment, these modifications are necessary and appropriate to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  .

Further, in section 4(c) of Executive Order  , I noted that I might further decrease or limit in scope the duties imposed under Executive Order  , as amended, if any trading partner takes significant steps to remedy non-reciprocal trade arrangements and align sufficiently with   on economic and national security matters. Accordingly, I later temporarily suspended the individual

ad  

rate of duty for certain trading partners to reflect the fact that some trading partners had signaled a willingness to undertake meaningful economic and national security commitments with   designed to combat the emergency declared in Executive Order  . In Executive Order  , I noted that certain foreign trading partners had agreed, or were on the verge of agreeing, to meaningful trade and security agreements with  , with the conclusion of the agreements to be completed in the future.

In my judgment, it is necessary and appropriate to take steps contemplated in certain current and forthcoming trade and security framework agreements (framework agreements) between a foreign trading partner and  . I determine that any modification of tariffs required to implement current and forthcoming framework agreements is necessary and appropriate to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security found in   (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into  ), as amended; Proclamation 9705 of   (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), as amended; Proclamation 9888 of   (Adjusting Imports of Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into  ), as amended; and   (Adjusting Imports of Copper Into  ). Except in rare circumstances, I will refrain from narrowing the scope of the reciprocal tariff or any relevant section 232 tariff before the conclusion of a final trade and security agreement (final agreement) between the foreign trading partner and  .

For example,   and   recently announced a landmark "Framework on an Agreement on Reciprocal, Fair, and  " (Framework Agreement). In the joint statement announcing  ,   committed to reduce the reciprocal tariff imposed under Executive Order  , as amended, on certain products of   to zero percent and to reduce tariffs imposed under section 232 for automobiles and automobile parts originating from   if   takes certain steps. In my judgment, it is necessary and appropriate to implement the tariff modifications described in  . These modifications are necessary and appropriate to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and to reduce or eliminate the threat to national security found in  , as amended.

Similarly, I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to implement the terms of any final agreement between a foreign trading partner and   related to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  . In my judgment, the modifications required to implement the terms of such a final agreement are necessary and appropriate to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security I have found pursuant to section 232.

Though I am generally unwilling for framework agreements to narrow the scope of the reciprocal tariffs or modify any relevant section 232 tariff before the conclusion of a final agreement, final agreements with   may include such modifications. My willingness to reduce the reciprocal tariff to zero percent for a given import or to modify tariffs imposed under section 232 will depend on numerous factors, including the scope and economic value of a trading partner's commitments to   in its agreement on reciprocal trade, the national interests of  , the need to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and the need to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security I have found pursuant to section 232. The list of imports for which I may be willing to provide a zero percent reciprocal tariff rate is set forth in the   to this order entitled "Potential Tariff Adjustments for Aligned Partners," which contains products that cannot be grown, mined, or naturally produced in   or grown, mined, or naturally produced in sufficient quantities in   to satisfy domestic demand; certain agricultural products; aircraft and aircraft parts; and non-patented articles for use in pharmaceutical applications. Given the complex, fact-specific, and sensitive nature of negotiations and the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , among other relevant considerations, the imports that might receive a reciprocal tariff rate of zero percent may be different for each final agreement between a foreign trading partner and  .

 . 2.  

. (a) The updated version of Annex II to Executive Order   is attached to this order and shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time   after the date of this order.

(b) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   (HTSUS) shall be modified as provided in   I to this order. These modifications shall enter into effect on the date set forth in   I to this order.

 . 3. Framework Agreements

. (a) Upon the conclusion of any framework agreement of a kind described in section 1 of this order, the Secretary of   and   Representative shall determine whether   must take any action to implement such framework agreement. Doing so shall include determining whether any condition or conditions to an action by   has occurred or will occur before the relevant action by  .

(b) If the Secretary of   and   Representative determine that an action must be taken to implement a framework agreement pursuant to subsection (a) of this section and that any condition or conditions to such action have occurred or will occur before the relevant action by  , the Secretary of   and   Representative shall take the necessary and appropriate actions to implement such framework agreement in accordance with this order.

(c) The Secretary of   and   Representative shall act in a manner consistent with the national interests of  , the purpose of this order, the need to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and the need to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security I have found pursuant to section 232.

 . 4. Final Agreements

. (a) Upon the conclusion of any final agreement of a kind described in section 1 of this order, the Secretary of   and   Representative shall take the necessary and appropriate actions to implement the final agreement in accordance with this order.

(b) In implementing any final agreement, the Secretary of   and   Representative shall act in a manner consistent with the national interests of  , the purpose of this order, the need to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and the need to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security I have found pursuant to section 232.

 . 5. Monitoring and Recommendations

. (a) The Secretary of   and  , in consultation with any officials they deem appropriate, shall continue to monitor the conditions underlying the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , including the   trade deficit, the lack of reciprocity in our bilateral trade relationships, disparate tariff rates and non-tariff barriers,   trading partners' economic policies that suppress domestic wages and consumption imports, the strength of our domestic manufacturing base, the strength of our defense industrial base, and any other relevant factors. The Secretary of   and   Representative shall, from time to time, update me on the status of these conditions.

(b) The Secretary of   and  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for  , shall continue to inform me of any circumstance that, in their opinion, might indicate the need for further action and shall continue to recommend to me additional action that, in their opinion, will more effectively deal with the emergency declared in Executive Order  .

(c) The Secretary of   and  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for  , shall advise me of the conclusion of any agreement on reciprocal trade with a particular trading partner.

 . 6. Delegation

. (a) Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and   are directed and authorized to take all necessary actions to implement and effectuate this order and any actions taken under section 3 or section 4 of this order—including through temporary suspension or amendment of regulations or through notices in  and by adopting rules, regulations, or guidance—and to employ all powers granted to the President, including those granted by   and section 232, as may be necessary to implement and effectuate this order.

(b) The Secretary of   and  , in consultation with the Commissioner of   ( ), the Chair of the United States International Trade Commission, and any other senior official they deem appropriate, shall determine whether modifications to the   are necessary to effectuate this order and any actions taken under section 3 or section 4 of this order and may direct such modifications through notice in  .

(c) If implementation of a framework agreement or final agreement of a kind described in section 1 of this order requires a refund of duties collected,   shall provide the refund to the extent consistent with law. Any refunds shall be processed pursuant to applicable law and  's standard procedures for such refunds.

(d) Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and   may redelegate any of these functions within their respective department or agency.

(e) All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 7. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

ANNEX I

Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time   after the date of this order, subdivision (v)(iii) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the   shall be amended by inserting in numerical order the following provisions of the HTSUS:

2504.10.10

2604.00.00

2609.00.00

2612.20.00

2613.90.00

2825.40.00

2833.24.00

2903.51.10

2924.29.01

2924.29.03

2924.29.23

2924.29.26

2924.29.28

2924.29.33

2924.29.57

2924.29.80

2926.90.50

2933.29.05

2933.29.60

4703.11.00

4703.21.00

4703.29.00

7108.11.00

7108.12.50

7108.13.10

7108.13.55

7108.13.70

7108.20.00

7115.90.05

7115.90.30

7202.60.00

7501.10.00

7502.10.00

7502.20.00

7503.00.00

7504.00.00

7903.90.30

8505.11.0070

8541.41.00

Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time   after the date of this order, subdivision (v)(iii) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the   shall be amended by removing the following provisions of the HTSUS:

2818.30.00

3824.99.93 3907.29.00 3907.30.00

3907.61.00

3907.69.00

3907.99.50

3910.00.00

CLICK HERE TO VIEW ANNEX II

Related PDFs

Download Annex II  

NOTE: This Executive order and its attached annexes were published in  on  .
