1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
FEMA Tribal Coordinator Act
.
2.
Emergency response coordinator for federally recognized tribes
Title III of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5141
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
328.
Emergency response coordinator for federally recognized tribes
(a)
In general
Immediately following the declaration of a multi-State major disaster or emergency, including a public health emergency, the President shall appoint a Tribal response coordinating officer.
(b)
Duties of the tribal emergency response coordinator
The duties of the Tribal response coordinating officer shall include the following:
(1)
Assessment
Conduct an assessment of relief most urgently needed in consultation with all affected Indian tribal governments and in the case of a public health emergency, work with the Indian Health Service to conduct outreach to tribally operated health programs to assess needs.
(2)
Liaison
Establish a liaison within each Bureau of Indian Affairs Regional Office and each Indian Health Service Area Office.
(3)
Administration
Coordinate administration of relief to Indian tribal governments and tribal healthcare providers (including Urban Indian Health Programs, tribally operated health programs, and Indian Health Service-operated facilities), including—
(A)
in the event of a public health emergency, distributions from the Strategic National Stockpile; and
(B)
establish a single point of contact for tribal requests for assistance, including emergency response personnel, equipment, and medical supplies.
(4)
Reimbursement
Coordinate assistance with submission of reimbursement requests and grant applications, including outstanding reimbursement requests or applications related to a major disaster or emergency after such disaster or emergency is closed. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, the Tribal response coordinator shall work with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Agency to continue to provide assistance with such applications until funds are disbursed.
(c)
Tribal requests
The Administrator shall consider a request from an Indian tribal government in the same manner as a request from a State.
.
