1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Native American Language Vitalization Act
.
2.
Native American Language Vitalization and Training Program
Part A of title III of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1057
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 316 (
20 U.S.C. 1059c
) the following:
316A.
Native American Language Vitalization and Training Program
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
From the amount appropriated under subsection (d), the Secretary shall establish the Native American Language Vitalization and Training Program under which the Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible institutions to promote the preservation, revitalization, relevancy, and use of Native American languages.
(2)
Term
The term of a grant under this section shall be not more than 5 years.
(3)
Application
(A)
Streamlined process
In carrying out the program under this section, the Secretary shall establish application requirements in such a manner as to simplify and streamline the process for the grant application under this section.
(B)
In general
To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, an eligible institution shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and in accordance with any other application requirements described in subparagraph (A), that the Secretary may prescribe, and including the following:
(i)
A description of the 5-year program of the eligible institution for meeting the needs of American Indians, Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, or Native American Pacific Islanders as appropriate, in the area served by the institution, and how such plan is consistent with the purposes described in paragraph (1).
(ii)
(I)
An identification of the population to be served by the eligible institution; and
(II)
an identification of the status of Native American language understanding and use within that population and a description of the manner in which the program will help preserve and revitalize the relevant Native American language.
(iii)
A description of the services to be provided under the program, including the manner in which the services will be integrated with other appropriate activities.
(iv)
A description, to be prepared in consultation with the Secretary, of the performance measures to be used to assess the performance of the eligible institution in carrying out the program.
(b)
Use of funds
An eligible institution may use a grant under this section to carry out activities consistent with the purposes described in subsection (a)(1), including—
(1)
curriculum development and academic instruction, including educational activities, programs, and partnerships relating to students in early childhood education programs through grade 12;
(2)
professional development for faculty at the eligible institution and in-service training programs for early childhood education programs through grade 12 instructors and administrators; and
(3)
innovative Native American language programs for students in early childhood education programs through grade 12, including language immersion programs.
(c)
Applicability of other provisions
(1)
Concurrent funding
(A)
Tribal College or University
An eligible institution that is a Tribal College or University may receive a grant under this section and funds under section 316 concurrently.
(B)
Alaska Native-serving institution or Native Hawaiian-serving institution
An eligible institution that is an Alaska Native-serving institution or Native Hawaiian-serving institution may receive a grant under this section and funds under section 317 concurrently.
(C)
Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution
An eligible institution that is an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution may receive a grant under this section and funds under section 320 concurrently.
(2)
Exemption
Sections 312(b) and 313(d) shall not apply to an eligible institution that receives a grant under this section.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 and each of the 5 succeeding fiscal years.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible institution
The term
eligible institution
means—
(A)
a Tribal College or University, as defined in section 316;
(B)
an Alaska Native-serving institution, as defined in section 317;
(C)
a Native Hawaiian-serving institution, as defined in section 317; or
(D)
an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution, as defined in section 320, which is located in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, or Guam.
(2)
Native American
The term
Native American
has the meaning given the term in section 371(c)(6).
.
