1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safe at Home Act
.
2.
Executive agency and Federal court compliance with State address confidentiality programs
(a)
In general
Each executive agency and Federal court shall accept, for any purpose for which an individual is required to provide an address to the agency or court, an address designated to that individual pursuant to an address confidentiality program.
(b)
Exemption from liability
A participant shall not be subject to Federal regulatory, civil, or criminal penalties for providing a designated address in lieu of the participant’s actual physical address.
(c)
Regulatory compliance with address confidentiality programs
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, each executive agency shall review and, as necessary, modify existing regulations to comply with this Act.
(d)
Compliance with address confidentiality program procedures and exemption from FOIA
In the case of an executive agency or Federal court seeking to acquire the actual physical address of a participant, the agency or court shall comply with any applicable procedures of the address confidentiality program for acquiring such address. Upon acquiring such an address, the address shall be considered confidential, and shall not be subject to any request pursuant to section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the
Freedom of Information Act
), except that in extreme circumstances a court may order the disclosure of that address pursuant to such request subject to a protective order against further disclosure.
(e)
Prompt notification upon termination from participation
If an individual’s participation in an address confidentiality program is terminated, that individual shall promptly notify each executive agency or Federal court that accepted a designated address under subsection (a).
(f)
Definition
In this Act:
(1)
Address confidentiality program
The term
address confidentiality program
means a program implemented pursuant to State law that provides a designated address, provides a mail-forwarding service, and is designated by the program participant as their legal agent to receive service of process.
(2)
Designated address
The term
designated address
means an address assigned by an address confidentiality program for a program participant to use in lieu of the participant’s actual physical address.
(3)
Executive agency
The term
executive agency
has the meaning given the term in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, except that such term does not include the Census Bureau.
(4)
Participant
The term
participant
means an adult or minor who is enrolled in an address confidentiality program.
(5)
Physical address
The term
physical address
means a program participant’s actual home, school, or employment address.
(6)
State
The term
State
means each of the States, the District of Columbia, each territory or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe.
