1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Less Traffic with Smart Stop Lights Act of 2019
.
2.
Smart Technology Traffic Signals Grant Program
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a Smart Technology Traffic Signals Grant Program (in this section referred to as the
Program
) to improve the functioning of traffic signals in a manner that—
(1)
reduces traffic congestion;
(2)
improves the safety and effectiveness of roadways;
(3)
reduces fuel costs for drivers; and
(4)
reduces air pollution.
(b)
Grant authority
In carrying out the Program, the Secretary may make grants, on a competitive basis, to a State, local, or Tribal government entity.
(c)
Grant uses
An entity awarded a grant under the Program shall use the grant to improve traffic signals through the implementation of innovative technology, including—
(1)
adaptive signal control technology; and
(2)
real-time data measurement technology.
(d)
Timing
A grant awarded to an entity under the Program shall be fully expended not later than the date that is 3 years after the date on which initial grant amounts are made available to the entity.
(e)
Federal share
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Federal share of the costs of a project assisted with a grant under the Program may not exceed 80 percent.
(2)
Exception
The Secretary may waive paragraph (1) if a State, local, or Tribal government entity demonstrates, as determined by the Secretary, extreme financial hardship.
(3)
In-kind contributions
The non-Federal share of the costs of a project assisted with a grant under the Program may be derived in whole or in part from in-kind contributions.
(f)
Applications
To be eligible for a grant under the Program, a State, local, or Tribal government entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(g)
Prohibition
(1)
In general
A grant awarded under the Program may not be used to purchase, operate, or maintain an automated traffic enforcement system.
(2)
Automated traffic enforcement system defined
In this subsection, the term
automated traffic enforcement system
means any device that captures an image of or information from a vehicle for the purposes of traffic law enforcement.
(h)
Crowdsourcing
Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary may accept, subject to regulations issued by the Office of Personnel Management, voluntary services if—
(1)
such services are accepted by the Secretary for an authorized use under subsection (c);
(2)
volunteers are not financially compensated; and
(3)
volunteers will not be used to displace any employee of the Federal Government.
(i)
Funding
(1)
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may use amounts made available to carry out the surface transportation block grant program (established under section 133(a) of title 23, United States Code) and the congestion mitigation and air quality improvement program (established under section 149(a) of title 23, United States Code) to carry out the Program.
(2)
Paragraph (1) shall apply with respect to fiscal years beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.
