1.
Community Capital Investment Program
Section 4003 of the CARES Act (
15 U.S.C. 9042
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(i)
Community Capital Investment Program
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Treasury shall establish a Community Capital Investment Program (the
Program
) to support the efforts of community investment institutions to provide loans and forbearance for small businesses, minority-owned businesses, and consumers, especially in low-income and underserved communities, by—
(A)
providing direct capital investments in community investment institutions; and
(B)
providing loans to community investment institutions—
(i)
that are interest-free loans;
(ii)
that have a loan term of 5 years; and
(iii)
with respect to which no loan payment is required until at least the end of the 6-month period beginning on the date the loan is made, or such longer term as the Secretary may determine appropriate.
(2)
Application date
The Secretary shall begin accepting applications for capital investments and loans under the Program not later than the end of the 10-day period beginning on the date of enactment of this subsection.
(3)
Dividend rate
Any preferred stock or other financial instrument issued to the Secretary in exchange for a capital investment under the Program shall carry a dividend or interest rate that does not exceed 1 percent.
(4)
Restrictions
The restrictions described under subsection (c)(3)(A)(ii) shall apply to capital investments and loans made under this subsection.
(5)
Available amounts
In carrying out the Program, the Secretary shall use amounts made available under subsection (b), notwithstanding the limitations on the use of such funds under paragraphs (1) through (4) of such subsection (b).
(6)
MDI set-aside
At least $3,000,000,000 of the direct capital investments and loans made by the Secretary under the Program shall be made to minority depository institutions.
(7)
Treatment of capital investments
In making any capital investment under the Program, the Secretary shall ensure that the terms of the investment are designed to ensure the investment receives Tier 1 capital treatment.
(8)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Community investment institution
The term
community investment institution
means—
(i)
a community development financial institution, as defined under section 103 of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (
12 U.S.C. 4702
);
(ii)
an impact credit union;
(iii)
an impact bank; and
(iv)
a minority depository institution, as defined under section 308 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (
12 U.S.C. 1463
note).
(B)
Credit union
The term
credit union
has the meaning given the terms State credit union and Federal credit union under section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1752
).
(C)
Impact credit union
The term
impact credit union
means a credit union that—
(i)
has total consolidated assets of less than $10,000,000,000; and
(ii)
extends at least 50 percent of the loans extended by the credit union to borrowers who are low-income borrowers, as determined by the Secretary.
(D)
Impact bank
The term
impact bank
means a depository institution (as defined under section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) that—
(i)
has total consolidated assets of less than $10,000,000,000; and
(ii)
extends at least 50 percent of the loans extended by the institution to borrowers who are low-income borrowers, as determined by the Secretary.
.
