1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safe Indoor Spaces Act
.
2.
COVID–19 technology prize
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this Act referred to as the
Secretary
) shall establish a program to award a financial prize to persons who successfully develop a system or device for use during the COVID–19 public health emergency that meets the criteria under subsection (b).
(b)
Criteria
To be eligible to receive a prize under this section, a person must develop a system or device that meets the following:
(1)
Inactivates or eliminates all traces of airborne SARS–CoV–2 from the air of an enclosed section of a building.
(2)
Decreases the rate of transmission of SARS–CoV–2 in an enclosed section of a building to a rate of transmission of SARS–CoV–2 that is comparable to an outdoor setting.
(3)
Able to be installed in or service an enclosed section of a building or the ventilation systems of a building, including—
(A)
schools;
(B)
public buildings; and
(C)
most types of buildings used as places of work.
(4)
With respect to public buildings, able to be installed in or service not fewer than 150,000 buildings in not less than 6 months.
(5)
Maintains or increases the cost of controlling the environment of a building by not more than 10 percent.
(c)
Establishment of board
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a board to advise the Secretary with respect to the program established under subsection (a).
(2)
Membership
The board shall be composed of 5 members appointed by the Secretary, including—
(A)
a public health expert;
(B)
an individual with experience in education;
(C)
an individual who represents small businesses; and
(D)
an engineer with expertise in public health.
(d)
Financial award
Based on the advice of the board established under subsection (c), the Secretary shall make each award under the program established under subsection (a) in an amount equal to or less than $5,000,000.
(e)
Intellectual property
The Federal Government may not acquire an intellectual property right in any product or idea by virtue of the submission of such product or idea in the prize competition under this section.
(f)
COVID–19 public health emergency
In this section, the term
COVID–19 public health emergency
means a public health emergency for which a declaration is in effect under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
), with respect to COVID–19.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
(1)
In general
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $5,250,000 for fiscal year 2021.
(2)
Administrative expenses
Not more than $250,000 of the amount appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year may be used for administrative expenses incurred in carrying out this section.
