1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Refuge From Cruel Trapping Act
of 2019
.
2.
Possession or use of body-gripping trap prohibited
The National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 (
16 U.S.C. 668dd
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
6.
Possession or use of body-gripping trap prohibited
(a)
In general
No person may possess or use a body-gripping trap in the System.
(b)
Enforcement provisions
Notwithstanding section 4(f), a person who possesses or uses a body-gripping trap in the System shall be subject to the following:
(1)
In the case of a first offense, a civil fine of not more than $500 imposed by the Secretary for each body-gripping trap possessed or used.
(2)
In the case of a subsequent offense—
(A)
a civil fine of not more than $1,000 imposed by the Secretary for each body-gripping trap possessed or used;
(B)
imprisonment for not more than 180 days; or
(C)
both a civil fine and imprisonment in accordance with subparagraphs (A) and (B).
(c)
Forfeiture of body-Gripping trap
Any body-gripping trap that is possessed or used in violation of this section, and any wildlife captured by the use of such trap, including the pelt or raw fur of such wildlife, shall be subject to forfeiture to the United States in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 46
of title 18, United States Code, relating to civil forfeitures.
(d)
Payment of court costs and other associated expenses
A person found to be in violation of subsection (a) shall pay all associated court costs.
(e)
Regulations
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue any regulations necessary to carry out this section.
(f)
Body-Gripping trap defined
In this section, the term
body-gripping trap
—
(1)
except as provided in paragraph (3), means any device that is intended to kill or capture wildlife by physically restraining any part of the animal;
(2)
includes any—
(A)
steel-jaw, padded, or other modified leghold trap;
(B)
kill-type trap;
(C)
snare trap; or
(D)
modified version of any such trap; and
(3)
does not include any—
(A)
cage or box trap; or
(B)
suitcase-type live beaver trap.
.
