1.
Prohibition on security assistance
(a)
In general
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense may not—
(1)
provide any United States assistance, including security assistance, intelligence, training, equipment, or services relating to maintenance, testing, or technical data, to—
(A)
the Government of Saudi Arabia, including the Ministries of Defense, Interior, and Intelligence; or
(B)
any agent or instrumentality of such Government; or
(2)
engage in any defense cooperation with such Government, Ministries, agents, or instrumentalities.
(b)
Exception for the protection of United States personnel and citizens
The prohibition under
subsection (a)
shall not apply with respect to activities of the Department of Defense relating to the protection of United States diplomatic and consular posts or personnel or to the evacuation of United States citizens.
2.
Prohibition on arms sales
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the President may not sell, transfer, deliver, license for export, authorize the performance of any service relating to, or otherwise make available any defense article, defense service, or design and construction service, as such terms are defined for purposes of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.), to the Government of Saudi Arabia or to any agents or instrumentalities of such Government.
3.
Case-by-case waiver of prohibitions on security assistance and arms sales
(a)
Joint resolution of approval To Waive
The prohibitions in sections 1 and 2 may be waived on a case-by-case basis if—
(1)
the President submits to the appropriate congressional committees a request to conduct a specific activity otherwise prohibited by such sections; and
(2)
there is enacted a joint resolution approving the waiver of such prohibition with respect to such specific activity.
(b)
Report accompanying request
Each request submitted pursuant to subsection (a)(1) shall also include a report describing—
(1)
how the requested activity would advance the national security and defense interests of the United States;
(2)
the status of the United States investigation into each person who—
(A)
authorized, ordered, carried out, or had knowledge of the murder of journalist and United States permanent resident Jamal Khashoggi; or
(B)
participated in attempts to cover up information regarding the murder of Mr. Khashoggi;
(3)
the extent to which each person described pursuant to
paragraph (2)
has been prosecuted or otherwise held accountable for such conduct; and
(4)
the status of the protection of human rights, including the freedom of the press, in Saudi Arabia.
(c)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
