1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Affordable and Homeless Housing Incentives Act of 2020
.
2.
Nonrecognition of gain on property sold for use as affordable housing
(a)
In general
Section 1033
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating subsection (k) as subsection (l) and by inserting after subsection (j) the following new subsection:
(k)
Sales for use as affordable housing
(1)
In general
For purposes of this subtitle, if real property is sold or otherwise transferred to a qualified housing operator for use or development by such operator as affordable housing and such property meets the requirements of paragraph (3), such sale or transfer shall be treated as an involuntary conversion to which this section applies.
(2)
Qualified housing operator
For purposes of this section, the term
qualified housing operator
means any of the following:
(A)
A State or local government, or any political subdivision or instrumentality thereof.
(B)
A tribally designated housing entity (as such term is defined in section 4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996).
(C)
A community housing development organization (as such term is defined in section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act).
(D)
An organization—
(i)
described in section 501(c) and exempt from taxation under section 501(a),
(ii)
the purpose of which includes providing affordable housing, and
(iii)
which—
(I)
has received Federal, State, or local grant funds to develop or operate affordable housing, or
(II)
is described in section 42(h)(5)(B) with respect to a qualified low-income housing project that is allocated housing credit dollar amounts under section 42.
(3)
Affordable housing requirement
The requirements of this paragraph are met with respect to property if such property has, as of the date of the sale or transfer referred to in paragraph (1), a legal restriction or agreement sufficient to obligate any owner to make (at all times during the 30-year period beginning on such date) such property either—
(A)
residential rental property (within the meaning of section 168) not less than 75 percent of the units of which are affordable to low-income families and either occupied by or available for use by low-income residents, or
(B)
a shelter eligible for assistance under title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act.
(4)
Special rule with respect to period within which property must be replaced
In the case of a sale or transfer described in paragraph (1), subsection (a)(2)(B)(i) shall be applied by substituting
3 years
for
2 years
.
(5)
Special rule for real property held for productive use in trade or business
For purposes of subsection (a), if the real property described in paragraph (1) is held for productive use in a trade or business or for investment, property of a like kind to be held either for productive use in a trade or business or for investment shall be treated as property similar or related in service or use to the property so described.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by this section shall apply to sales and transfers after the date of the enactment of this Act.
