1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Public Library Innovation Space Act
.
2.
Authorization of appropriations
Subsection (a) of section 214 of the Museum and Library Services Act (
20 U.S.C. 9123(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(3)
to carry out chapter 5, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
.
3.
Public Library Makerspace Grants
Subtitle B of title II of the Museum and Library Services Act (
20 U.S.C. 9101
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
5
Public library makerspace grant program
265.
Public library makerspace grant program
(a)
Program authorized
From the amounts provided under section 214(a)(3), the Director shall carry out a program under which the Director makes grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible partnerships to establish makerspaces at public libraries.
(b)
Applications
To be considered for a grant under this section, an eligible partnership shall submit an application to the Director at such time, in such manner, and containing such information and assurances as the Director may require.
(c)
Selection of grantees
In selecting eligible partnerships to receive grants under this section, the Director shall consider—
(1)
the viability of the partnership making the application;
(2)
the ability of the partnership to meet the matching requirement described in subsection (d);
(3)
the potential of the project to provide social and economic benefits to the local community;
(4)
the support of local communities, government, and partners for the project;
(5)
the project’s potential for strengthening the involvement of diverse and underserved communities in entrepreneurship and economic development; and
(6)
the ability of the project to continue after the end of the grant period.
(d)
Matching requirement
(1)
In general
An eligible partnership shall contribute, for the activities for which the grant was awarded under this section, non-Federal matching funds in an amount determined appropriate by the Director.
(2)
Waiver
The Director may waive the requirement of paragraph (1) for any eligible partnership that the Director determines does not have adequate resources to meet such requirement.
(e)
Reports
Not less frequently than once annually, the Director shall submit to Congress a report that includes—
(1)
a description of the activities carried out with grants under this section; and
(2)
an assessment of the effect of the grant program on community economic development.
(f)
Treatment of makerspaces
The use of a makerspace supported by a grant under this section shall not be treated as a private business use under
section 141(b)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(g)
Prohibition on construction activities
An eligible partnership that receives a grant under this section may not use grant funds, or matching funds contributed by the partnership under subsection (d), for construction activities at a public library that would provide extra square footage to house a makerspace.
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible partnership
The term
eligible partnership
means a partnership that includes a public library and—
(A)
an economic development corporation;
(B)
a local government;
(C)
a tribal government;
(D)
a State government;
(E)
an elementary school or secondary school (as such terms are defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
));
(F)
a museum;
(G)
an institution of higher education (as such term is defined in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
));
(H)
a nonprofit organization;
(I)
a corporation;
(J)
other entities identified by the Director; or
(K)
a combination of entities described in any of subparagraphs (A) through (I).
(2)
Makerspace
The term
makerspace
means a facility (which may be a facility at a fixed location or a mobile unit) that is open to the public and provides individuals with access to—
(A)
tools, technology, and educational resources that are designed to enable such individuals to create physical goods, including prototypes; and
(B)
educational opportunities, including vocational training and assistance with early-stage business ventures.
.
