1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preparing Localities for an Autonomous and Connected Environment Act
or the
PLACE Act
.
2.
Grants for the operation of a National Highly Automated Vehicle Clearinghouse
(a)
In general
Part A of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:
307
National highly automated vehicle clearinghouse
30701.
National highly automated vehicle clearinghouse
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Transportation shall make a grant to an institution of higher education engaged in research on the secondary influences of highly automated vehicles to—
(1)
operate a national highly automated vehicle clearinghouse;
(2)
collect, conduct, and fund research on the secondary influences of highly automated vehicles; and
(3)
make such research available on a public website.
(b)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated out of the Highway Trust Fund $2,000,000 for each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2019, to carry out this Act.
(c)
Applicability of title 23
Funds authorized by subsection (b) shall be available for obligation in the same manner as if such funds were apportioned under
chapter 1
of title 23 except that the funds shall remain available until expended.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Highly automated vehicle
The term
highly automated vehicle
means a motor vehicle that is capable of performing the entire task of driving (including steering, accelerating and decelerating, and reacting to external stimulus) without human intervention.
(2)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
).
(3)
Secondary influence
The term
secondary influence
means the influence on land use, urban design, transportation, real estate, municipal budgets, social equity, and the environment.
.
(b)
Deadline for clearinghouse
The Secretary of Transportation shall ensure that the institution of higher education who receives the grant described in section 30701(a)(1) of title 49, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall establish the national highly automated vehicle clearinghouse described in such section not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Technical and Conforming Amendment
The table of sections for part A of subtitle VI, of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to chapter 305 the following new item:
307. National highly automated vehicle clearinghouse.
.
