1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Police Protection Act of 2019
.
2.
Requiring reports by law enforcement officers in the event of an injury or fatality
(a)
In general
Beginning in fiscal year 2021 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Attorney General shall reduce by 10 percent the amount that a State or unit of local government would otherwise receive under a grant program described in subsection (b), if the State or unit of local government does not have in place a law requiring the submission of reports by State and local law enforcement officers that is substantially similar to the reporting requirement under section 3.
(b)
Grant programs described
The grant programs described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10151
et seq.).
(2)
The
Cops on the Beat
grant program under part Q of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10381
et seq.).
(c)
Reallocation
Amounts not allocated under a program described in subsection (b) to a State or unit of local government for failure to comply with this section shall be reallocated under that program to States and units of local government that are in compliance with this section.
3.
Reporting requirement for Federal law enforcement officers
(a)
Requirement
In the case that an individual is injured or killed by a Federal law enforcement officer while in the custody or control of the officer, or otherwise in the course of the law enforcement officer’s employment—
(1)
not later than 24 hours after such injury or death occurs, such law enforcement officer shall submit to the Attorney General a report, which describes, in detail, the facts and circumstances surrounding such injury or death;
(2)
any Federal law enforcement officer who is present at the time of the injury or death, or is involved during the 12-hour period following the injury or death in the transportation or care of the individual, or any administrative procedures relating to the individual, shall, not later than 24 hours after the conclusion of such involvement, submit to the Attorney General a report, which describes, in detail, the facts and circumstances surrounding such involvement; and
(3)
the Inspector General of the Department of Justice shall investigate the facts and circumstances surrounding such injury or death, and submit a report to the Attorney General not later than 60 days after such injury or death.
(b)
Criminal penalty
Whoever, being a Federal law enforcement officer required to submit a report under subsection (a), knowingly—
(1)
fails to submit such a report; or
(2)
submits a report containing false or misleading information,
shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(c)
Definition
In this Act, the term
Federal law enforcement officer
has the meaning given the term in section 115 of title 18, United States Code.
