1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
VA Tele-Hearing Modernization Act
.
2.
Disability compensation hearings before the Board of Veterans' Appeals by means of teleconference from locations other than facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Establishment
Section 7107 of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by inserting
or subparagraph (C) of this paragraph
after
subparagraph (B) of such paragraph
;
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting
or subparagraph (C) of this paragraph
after
subparagraph (A) of such paragraph
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph (C):
(C)
Upon notification of a Board hearing under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) in a case regarding disability compensation under a law administered by the Secretary, the appellant may alternatively request a hearing by picture and voice transmission—
(i)
at a location selected by the appellant; and
(ii)
via a secure internet platform established and maintained by the Secretary that protects sensitive personal information from a data breach.
If so requested, the Board shall grant such request.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection (f):
(f)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
sensitive personal information
and
data breach
have the meanings given those terms in section 5727 of this title.
.
(b)
Deadline
The Secretary shall implement the amendments made by subsection (a) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Reports
On the day that is one year after the date on which the Secretary implements subparagraph (C) of subsection (c)(2) of such section 7107, as added by subsection (a), and twice annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report regarding hearings held under such subparagraph. Each such report shall include, with respect to the year immediately preceding the date of the report, the following:
(1)
The number of hearings scheduled under such subparagraph.
(2)
The number of hearings under such subparagraph that were cancelled and why each such hearing was cancelled.
(3)
Any statistical difference in outcomes between cases heard under such subparagraph and those held at the principal location of the Board or by picture and voice transmission at a facility of the Department.
