1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Increase Transportation Alternatives Investment Act of 2019
.
2.
Surface transportation block grant program
Section 133 of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(j)
Transportation alternatives for areas undergoing extensive repair or reconstruction of
transportation infrastructure
The Secretary shall issue regulations to ensure that States give preference to eligible projects under this section that—
(1)
are located in areas that are undergoing extensive repair or reconstruction of transportation infrastructure, including Federal-aid highways, federally owned roads open for public travel, passenger rail facilities, and public transportation facilities; and
(2)
will provide transportation alternatives related to the full or partial closure of the transportation infrastructure in such areas.
.
3.
Grant Program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Transportation shall carry out a grant program to support community efforts to invest in transportation alternatives.
(b)
Award of grants
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall award grants under the program on a competitive basis.
(c)
Preference
In awarding the grants, the Secretary shall give preference to projects located in areas that are undergoing extensive repair or reconstruction of transportation infrastructure, including Federal-aid highways, federally owned roads open for public travel, passenger rail facilities, and public transportation facilities.
(d)
Eligible entities
The following entities shall be eligible to receive grants under the program:
(1)
State and local governments.
(2)
Metropolitan planning organizations.
(3)
Rural planning organizations.
(e)
Eligible activities
Amounts received in grants under the program may be used to plan for, facilitate, and provide initial support for any of the following activities:
(1)
Transportation demand management programs, including support for transportation management associations.
(2)
Carpool or telecommuting projects.
(3)
Planning, design, acquisition of rights-of-way, construction, improvement, and management of streets, pathways, and public transportation facilities to facilitate expanded bicycle and pedestrian mobility and access.
(f)
Application
To receive a grant under the program, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form and manner as the Secretary prescribes.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $1,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023 to carry out this section.
