1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
VA Community Infrastructure Act
.
2.
Veteran community infrastructure pilot program
(a)
Establishment
Chapter 81
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 8117
the following new section:
8117A.
Veteran community infrastructure pilot program
(a)
Authority
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may make grants, conclude cooperative agreements, and supplement funds available under Federal programs administered by agencies other than the Department of Veterans Affairs to assist State and local governments to address deficiencies in community infrastructure supportive of medical facilities if the Secretary determines that such assistance will enhance the resilience of the medical facility or the quality of life of veterans eligible to receive care at such medical facility.
(b)
Criteria
The Secretary shall establish criteria for the selection of community infrastructure proj­ects to receive assistance under subsection (a). The criteria shall include a preference toward medical facilities in areas with large veteran populations or areas experiencing high rates of growth in the veteran population.
(c)
Funds
Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for assistance under subsection (a) may remain available until expended.
(d)
Termination
The authority under this section shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after the date of the enactment of this section.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
community infrastructure
means any—
(A)
transportation project;
(B)
flood or natural disaster mitigation project;
(C)
hospital, police, fire, emergency response, or other community support facility; or
(D)
water, waste-water, te­le­com­mu­ni­ca­tions, electric, gas, or other utility infrastructure project that is owned by a State or local government.
(2)
The term
medical facility
has the meaning given in section 8101 of this title.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 8117 the following new item:
8117A. Veteran community infrastructure pilot program.
.
