1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Community Readiness Act
.
2.
Grants for research on, or establishing, wastewater surveillance and other early warning systems
Subtitle C of title XVIII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300hh–31
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
2823.
Grants for research on, or establishing, wastewater surveillance and other early warning systems
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, may award grants to eligible entities to conduct research on, or to establish, a wastewater surveillance or other early warning system through—
(1)
wastewater testing;
(2)
temperature tracking to monitor axillary body temperature; and
(3)
other methods deemed permissible by the Secretary and Administrator.
(b)
Permissible uses of funds
A grant recipient under this section may use grant funds to support the activities described in subsection (a), including by—
(1)
paying for data-centric services that can detect infectious diseases before positive cases or hospitalizations;
(2)
entering into contracts with private companies to implement early warning detection methods; or
(3)
funding research to study early warning detection methods.
(c)
Priority
In selecting grant recipients under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities proposing to conduct research on, or to establish, wastewater surveillance or other early warning system in one or more areas that—
(1)
are (or include one or more areas that are) a hot spot; or
(2)
a higher percentage of vulnerable populations than the national average.
(d)
Federal privacy requirements
Nothing in this section shall be construed to supersede any Federal privacy or confidentiality requirement, including the regulations promulgated under section 264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (
42 U.S.C. 1320d–2
note) and section 543 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290dd–2
).
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(2)
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
a State government;
(B)
a local government;
(C)
a Tribal government;
(D)
an entity that conducts health research; and
(E)
an academic institution.
(3)
The term
emergency period
has the meaning given to that term in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1320b–5(g)(1)(B)
).
(4)
The term
hot spot
means a geographic area where the rate of infection with a particular pathogen exceeds the national average.
(5)
The term
local government
means a county, municipality, town, township, village, parish, borough, or other unit of general local government.
(6)
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(7)
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
(8)
The term
vulnerable population
means people at increased risk of severe illness.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $18,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.
.
