1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019
.
2.
Table of contents
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Explanatory statement.
Sec. 5. Statement of appropriations.
Sec. 6. Availability of funds.
Division A—Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019
Title I—Agricultural Programs
Title II—Farm Production and Conservation Programs
Title III—Rural Development Programs
Title IV—Domestic Food Programs
Title V—Foreign Assistance and Related Programs
Title VI—Related Agency and Food and Drug Administration
Title VII—General Provisions
Division B—Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019
Title I—Department of Commerce
Title II—Department of Justice
Title III—Science
Title IV—Related Agencies
Title V—General Provisions
Division C—Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2019
Title I—Department of the Treasury
Title II—Executive Office of the President and Funds Appropriated to the President
Title III—The Judiciary
Title IV—District of Columbia
Title V—Independent Agencies
Title VI—General Provisions—This Act
Title VII—General Provisions—Government-wide
Title VIII—General Provisions—District of Columbia
Division D—Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019
Title I—Department of the Interior
Title II—Environmental Protection Agency
Title III—Related Agencies
Title IV—General Provisions
Division E—Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2019
Title I—Department of State and Related Agency
Title II—United States Agency for International Development
Title III—Bilateral Economic Assistance
Title IV—International Security Assistance
Title V—Multilateral Assistance
Title VI—Export and Investment Assistance
Title VII—General Provisions
Title VIII—Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism
Division F—Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019
Title I—Department of Transportation
Title II—Department of Housing and Urban Development
Title III—Related Agencies
Title IV—General Provisions—This Act
Division G—Other Matters
Title I—Technical Corrections
Title II—Extensions of Authorities
Title III—Medicaid Extenders
Title IV—Budgetary Effects
3.
References to Act
Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to
this Act
contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as referring only to the provisions of that division.
4.
Explanatory statement
The explanatory statement regarding this Act, printed in the House section of the Congressional Record on or about January 17, 2019, and submitted by the Chairwoman of the Committee on Appropriations of the House, shall have the same effect with respect to the allocation of funds and implementation of divisions A through F of this Act as if it were a joint explanatory statement of a committee of conference.
5.
Statement of appropriations
The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019.
6.
Availability of funds
Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded, if applicable) only if the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such designations to the Congress.
