1.
Interagency report on special recreation permits benefits to environmental justice communities
(a)
In general
Not later than 3 years following the enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall submit a report to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate on the following:
(1)
Estimated use of special recreation permits by recreation service providers serving environmental justice communities.
(2)
Any national, regional, State, local, or site-specific policies, including those required under the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (
16 U.S.C. 6801
et seq.) that facilitate public lands access for recreational service providers serving environmental justice communities.
(3)
Any case studies that may provide illustrative examples of how special recreation permits, partnerships, or cooperative agreements are being effectively used by land managers for the purposes of providing public lands access to recreation service providers serving environmental justice communities.
(4)
Identification of any barriers to public lands access for recreation service providers serving environmental justice communities.
(5)
Any recommendations for agency policy, or if necessary, action by Congress to encourage and simplify public lands access for recreational service providers serving environmental justice communities.
(b)
Voluntary participation by special recreation providers
The Secretaries—
(1)
shall contact all current or prospective special recreation providers to request a voluntary estimation of how many user days are used by individuals from environmental justice communities;
(2)
shall request from recreational service providers and interested members of the public any other information that supports the reporting requirements in subsection (a); and
(3)
shall not use participation or information provided as a condition in approving or rejecting a special recreation permit.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
environmental justice community
means a community with significant representation of communities of color, low-income communities, or Tribal and indigenous communities, that experiences, or is at risk of experiencing, higher or more adverse human health or environmental effects than other communities.
(2)
The terms
recreation service provider
,
special recreation permit
,
Secretaries
, and
Secretary
have the same meaning as defined in section 802 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (
16 U.S.C. 6801
).
