1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Mamas First Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the maternal mortality rate varies drastically for women by race and ethnicity. On average, there are 12.7 deaths per 100,000 live births for White women, 43.5 deaths per 100,000 live births for African-American women, 32.5 deaths for American Indian and Alaskan Native women, and 14.4 deaths per 100,000 live births for women of other ethnicities. While maternal mortality disparately impacts African-American women and indigenous women, this urgent public health crisis traverses race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, educational background, and geography.
(2)
United States maternal mortality rates are the highest in the developed world and are increasing rapidly.
(3)
Many of these maternal deaths are likely preventable.
(4)
According to the National Institutes of Health, doula-assisted mothers are four times less likely to have a low-birth-weight baby, two times less likely to experience a birth complication involving themselves or their baby, and significantly more likely to initiate breastfeeding.
(5)
Midwife-led care is associated with cost savings, decreased rates of intervention, lower cesarean rates, lower preterm birth rates, and healthier outcomes for mothers and babies.
(6)
Midwives may practice in any setting, including the home, community, hospitals, clinics, or health units.
3.
Medicaid coverage of services provided by doulas and midwives
(a)
In general
Section 1905 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396d
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in paragraph (29), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
by redesignating paragraph (30) as paragraph (31); and
(C)
by inserting after paragraph (29) the following new paragraph:
(30)
services, including prenatal, delivery, and postpartum services, provided by doulas and midwives (as those terms are defined in subsection (ff)) to the extent authorized under State law; and
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(ff)
Doulas and midwives defined
For purposes of subsection (a)(30):
(1)
Doulas defined
The term
doula
means an individual who—
(A)
is certified by an organization, which has been established for not less than five years and which requires the completion of continuing education to maintain such certification, to provide non-medical advice, information, emotional support, and physical comfort to an individual during such individual’s pregnancy, childbirth, and postpartum period; and
(B)
maintains such certification by completing such required continuing education.
(2)
Midwives defined
(A)
In general
The term
midwife
means a certified midwife, certified professional midwife, licensed midwife, and Tribal-recognized midwife.
(B)
Certified midwife
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
certified midwife
means an individual who is certified by the American Midwifery Certification Board to practice midwifery.
(C)
Certified professional midwife
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
certified professional midwife
means an individual who—
(i)
is certified by the North American Registry of Midwives to practice midwifery for normal, low-risk pregnancies and childbirths;
(ii)
completes—
(I)
a midwifery education program accredited by the Midwifery Education and Accreditation Council or any other entity recognized by the Department of Education; or
(II)
the requirements to obtain a Midwifery Bridge Certificate from the North American Registry of Midwives; and
(iii)
maintains the certification described in clause (i) by completing any required continuing education for such certification.
(D)
Licensed midwife
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
licensed midwife
means, with respect to a State, an individual who is licensed under State law to practice midwifery.
(E)
Tribal-recognized midwife
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
Tribal-recognized midwife
means an individual who is recognized by an Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act) to practice midwifery for such tribe.
.
(b)
Requiring mandatory coverage under State plan
Section 1902(a)(10)(A) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(A)
) is amended, in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking
and (29)
and inserting
(29), and (30)
.
(c)
Effective date
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), the amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to medical assistance furnished on or after January 1, 2020.
(2)
Exception for State legislation
In the case of a State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.) that the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines requires State legislation in order for the respective plan to meet any requirement imposed by amendments made by this section, the respective plan shall not be regarded as failing to comply with the requirements of such title solely on the basis of its failure to meet such an additional requirement before the first day of the first calendar quarter beginning after the close of the first regular session of the State legislature that begins after the date of the enactment of this Act. For purposes of the previous sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year legislative session, each year of the session shall be considered to be a separate regular session of the State legislature.
