1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Developing the National Security Workforce Act
.
2.
Incentives and consideration for qualified training programs
(a)
In general
(1)
Chapter 141
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2409
the following new section:
2409a.
Incentives and consideration for qualified training programs
(a)
Incentives
The Secretary of Defense shall develop workforce development investment incentives for a contractor that implements a qualified training program to develop the workforce of the contractor in a manner consistent with the needs of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Consideration of qualified training programs
The Secretary of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to require that the system used by the Federal Government to monitor or record contractor past performance includes an analysis of the availability, quality, and effectiveness of a qualified training program of an offeror as part of the past performance rating of such offeror.
(c)
Qualified training program defined
The term
qualified training program
means any of the following:
(1)
A program eligible to receive funds under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.).
(2)
A program eligible to receive funds under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (
21 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.).
(3)
A program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the
National Apprenticeship Act
; Stat. 664, chapter 663;
29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.).
(4)
Any other program determined to be a qualified training program for purposes of this section, and that meets the workforce needs of the Department of Defense, as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2409 the following new item:
2409a. Incentives and consideration for qualified training programs.
.
(b)
Applicability
This Act and the amendments made by this Act apply with respect to contracts awarded on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
