1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Job Centers Family Accessibility Act of 2020
.
2.
Establishment
(a)
In general
Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a competitive program (hereinafter referred to as the
program
) to make grants to States with an established one-stop delivery system under subsection (a) of section 121 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3151
) to provide access to childcare for individuals that receive services from such one-stop delivery systems.
(b)
Selection
(1)
Number of grantees
The Secretary shall award grants under the program to not fewer than 6 States.
(2)
Workforce area specification
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall require each applicant State to specify a workforce area in the State in which the applicant intends to implement the project funded by the grant under this section.
(B)
Rural workforce areas
An applicant State with multiple local workforce boards shall designate a rural workforce area as the project site.
(3)
Application
The Secretary shall require applicant States to submit an application containing—
(A)
a description of—
(i)
the project, including how the State intends to carry out the project and use funds granted under this section;
(ii)
the designated workforce area described in subsection (b);
(iii)
a plan for third-party evaluation of the project; and
(iv)
the cost estimate of the project; and
(B)
a letter from each workforce board with jurisdiction in the designated workforce area described in subsection (b) certifying that such board acknowledges that such board will receive funds to implement the described project.
(4)
Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to States that—
(A)
have more rural areas; and
(B)
provide access to childcare for individuals that receive services from such one-stop delivery systems.
(5)
Geographic diversity
In carrying out the program, the Secretary shall, select not more than one State from each of the six Regions of the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) of DOL.
(c)
Use of funds
The Secretary shall include as a condition of receipt of the grant a requirement that the State shall—
(1)
reserve not fewer than 5 percent of funds received under the grant to fund a third-party evaluation; and
(2)
all other grant funds awarded to the State under the program shall be used to provide access to child care for individuals using the service of such a one-stop delivery system.
(d)
Report
(1)
Grantee reports
The Secretary shall include as a condition of receipt of the grant a requirement that the State shall submit annual reports containing—
(A)
information on how the grant funds have been used to achieve the purpose of this Act;
(B)
with respect to each grant, a description of progress made toward achievement of the goals described in the application of such grantee; and
(C)
a description of metrics relevant to the project, including—
(i)
number of unique residents who utilized child care services funded under this section in a given time period; and
(ii)
number of children served using funds under this section in a given time period.
(2)
Congressional report
Not later than 5 years after the date on which the first grant is awarded under this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress an evaluation of all grants issued under this Act, including—
(A)
the goals of each grantee;
(B)
challenges and outcomes associated with each grant; and
(C)
recommendations with respect to future programs to achieve the purpose of this Act.
(e)
State defined
In this Act, the term
State
means any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020.
