1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Analyzing Kinetic Impact Projectiles Against Americans Act of 2020
.
2.
Study on health care impacts of the use of kinetic impact projectiles in the United States
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall enter into an arrangement with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (or, if the National Academies decline to enter into such arrangement, another appropriate entity) under which, not later than 1 year after such date of enactment, the National Academies (or other appropriate entity) will complete a comprehensive study on the health care impacts of the use of kinetic impact projectiles in the United States.
(b)
Required analysis
The study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall include an analysis of each of the following:
(1)
The frequency and severity of injuries and health impacts caused by the use of kinetic impact projectiles on individuals domestically.
(2)
The settings related to the use of kinetic impact projectiles.
(3)
A statistical review of the frequency of use of kinetic impact projectiles by law enforcement entities domestically.
(4)
A demographic and racial breakdown of individuals who have been impacted by kinetic impact projectile-caused injuries domestically.
(5)
A statistical review of the site and morbidity of injuries caused by kinetic impact projectiles.
(6)
A review of treatments for kinetic impact projectile-caused injuries and the efficacy of such treatments.
(c)
Report to Congress
The arrangement under subsection (a) shall provide for the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (or other appropriate entity), not later than 6 months after the completion of the study conducted pursuant to subsection (a), and annually thereafter—
(1)
to submit to the relevant congressional committees of jurisdiction, including the Committees on Appropriations, Energy and Commerce, and the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations; Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions; and the Judiciary of the Senate, a report that contains—
(A)
the results of the analysis conducted under subsection (b); and
(B)
any recommendations, regarding the effects of the use of kinetic impact projectiles in the United States, to—
(i)
implement changes government-wide;
(ii)
establish guidelines and best practices for the use of kinetic impact projectiles; and
(iii)
improve the oversight of Federal procurement and funding for kinetic impact projectiles; and
(2)
to make such report publicly available on the internet.
(d)
Definition
In this section, the term
kinetic impact projectile
means—
(1)
a rubber or plastic bullet, bean bag round, sponge round, pellet round, or wooden dowel; and
(2)
any other projectile-delivered impact munition determined to be subject to the study under this section by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in consultation with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (or other appropriate entity).
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2021.
