1.
Commission on Strategic National Stockpile
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the legislative branch a commission to be known as the Commission on the Strategic National Stockpile (in this section referred to as the
Commission
).
(b)
Duty of Commission
The Commission shall conduct a study to determine the most effective ways to stock the strategic national stockpile under section 319F–2 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247–6b
) in order to address local, State, and Federal needs in times of emergency, including—
(1)
the types of supplies needed; and
(2)
the quantity of each such supply.
(c)
Membership
(1)
Number and appointment
The Commission shall be composed of 10 members, of whom—
(A)
two members shall be appointed by the President;
(B)
two members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
(C)
two members shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives;
(D)
two members shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate; and
(E)
two members shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.
(2)
Terms
Each member shall be appointed for the life of the Commission.
(3)
Compensation
Each member of the Commission may be compensated at a rate not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day during which such member is engaged in the actual performance of the duties of the Commission.
(d)
Administrative provisions
(1)
Staff
(A)
Appointment and compensation
The majority of the Commission, in accordance with rules agreed upon by the Commission, may appoint and fix the compensation of an executive director and such other personnel as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions, without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that no rate of pay fixed under this subsection may exceed the rate payable for a position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
(B)
Personnel as Federal employees
(i)
In general
The executive director and any other personnel of the Commission appointed in accordance with subparagraph (A) shall be treated as employees under section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of chapters 63, 81, 83, 84, 85, 87, 89, and 90 of such title.
(ii)
Members of Commission
Clause (i) may not be construed to apply to members of the Commission.
(2)
Detailees
Any Federal Government employee may be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement from the Commission, and such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status, rights, or privilege.
(3)
Expert and consultant services
The Commission may procure the services of experts and consultants in accordance with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, at rates not to exceed the daily rate paid a person occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.
(e)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall transmit to Congress a report on the study required under subsection (b).
(f)
Termination
The Commission shall terminate immediately following the submission of the report required under subsection (e).
