1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Status of Child Marriages in the United States Act of 2020
.
2.
Study and report on child and forced marriages
(a)
Study
The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this Act referred to as the
Secretary
) shall conduct a study on the effect of State laws on child marriages and forced marriages. Such study shall include an evaluation of the following:
(1)
State laws with respect to the minimum age required to receive a marriage license and exceptions to such minimum age requirement, including in the cases of parental consent, judicial approval, emancipation, and pregnancy.
(2)
The effect of legislative reforms on—
(A)
State laws described in paragraph (1); and
(B)
the number of child marriages in—
(i)
each State that has enacted exceptions to such minimum age requirement; and
(ii)
States that are adjacent to a State described in clause (i).
(3)
The difficulty of obtaining data from each State with respect to child marriages.
(4)
The extent to which exceptions to the minimum age requirement increase the number of child marriages that also qualify as a forced marriage.
(5)
The extent to which child marriage leads to—
(A)
domestic violence;
(B)
dating violence;
(C)
sexual assault; and
(D)
sex trafficking.
(b)
Report
Not later than 2 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete the study under subsection (a) and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report containing the findings of the study, including information that is disaggregated by age and gender.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe.
(2)
Child marriage
The term
child marriage
means a marriage in which a party to the marriage has not attained the age of 18 at the time of the marriage.
(3)
Forced marriage
The term
forced marriage
means a marriage that takes place without the full and free consent of one or both parties and typically involves force, fraud, or coercion.
