1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Reef Safe Act of 2019
.
2.
Labeling criteria for
reef safe
sunscreen
(a)
In general
As soon as practicable, but not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the Commissioner, shall develop labeling criteria for a
Reef Safe
designation for nonprescription sunscreen, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(b)
Reef safe label
(1)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the Commissioner, shall develop standards for use of the term
Reef Safe
on the labeling of nonprescription sunscreen, which shall conform with the requirements of section 502 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 352
).
(2)
Criteria and consultation
In developing the standards described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
consider the impacts of active sunscreen ingredients on the mortality of, and developmental or reproductive disruptions to, certain marine species, including fish, fish larvae, sea urchins, coral, and shrimp; and
(B)
consult with appropriate heads of Federal agencies, including the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, with respect to studies on the impacts of active sunscreen ingredients on living components of coral reef ecosystems.
(c)
Review and revision
Not less frequently than once every 10 years, the Secretary, acting through the Commissioner and in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and taking into consideration scientific studies of the Food and Drug Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the National Oceanic and Environmental Protection Agency, shall—
(1)
review the labeling standards in effect under subsection (b)(1);
(2)
if appropriate, revise the criteria under subsection (b)(2); and
(3)
in accordance with such criteria, as revised under paragraph (2) as applicable, update the labeling standards under subsection (b)(1).
(d)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the terms
active sunscreen ingredient
,
nonprescription
, and
sunscreen
have the meanings given such terms in section 586 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360fff
);
(2)
the terms
coral
and
coral reef ecosystem
have the meanings given such terms in section 210 of the Coral Reef Conservation Act of 2000 (
16 U.S.C. 6409
);
(3)
the term
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Food and Drugs; and
(4)
the term
Secretary
, unless specified otherwise, means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
