1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Requiring Assistance to Meat Processors for Upgrading Plants Act
or the
RAMP–UP Act
.
2.
Grants for improvements to meat and poultry facilities to allow for interstate shipment
The Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (
7 U.S.C. 1621
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
H
Grants for improvements to meat and poultry facilities to allow for interstate shipment
298.
Grants for improvements to meat and poultry facilities to allow for interstate shipment
(a)
In general
The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service and in consultation with the Administrator of the Food Safety Inspection Service, shall make grants to meat and poultry processing facilities in operation as of the date on which an application for such a grant is made to assist such facilities with respect to costs incurred in making improvements to such facilities and carrying out other planning activities necessary to be subject to inspection under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (
21 U.S.C. 601
et seq.), or the Poultry Products Inspection Act (
21 U.S.C. 451
et seq.).
(b)
Grant amount
The amount of a grant under this section shall not exceed $100,000.
(c)
Condition
As a condition on receipt of a grant under this section, a grant recipient shall agree that if the recipient is not subject to inspection or making a good faith effort to be subject to inspection under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (
21 U.S.C. 601
et seq.) or the Poultry Products Inspection Act (
21 U.S.C. 451
et seq.) within 36 months of receiving such grant, the grant recipient shall make a payment (or payments) to the Secretary in an amount equal to the amount of the grant.
(d)
Matching funds
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall require a grant recipient to provide matching nonFederal funds in an amount equal to the amount of a grant.
(2)
Exception
The Secretary shall not require any grant recipient to provide matching funds with respect to a grant awarded in fiscal years 2020 or 2021.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Reports on grants made
Beginning not later than one year after the date on which the first grant is awarded under this section, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report on grants made under this section and any facilities that were upgraded using such funds during the year covered by the report.
(2)
Report on the Cooperative Interstate Shipment Program
Beginning not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report of any recommendations, developed in consultation with States, for possible improvements to the cooperative interstate shipment program under section 501 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (
21 U.S.C. 683
) or section 31 of the Poultry Products Inspection Act (
21 U.S.C. 472
).
(f)
Funding
(1)
Mandatory funding
Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the Secretary shall use $80,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2020 through 2023, to remain available until expended.
(2)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2023.
.
