1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
WIC Benefit Flexibility During COVID–19 Act
.
2.
State option for cash-value voucher increases
(a)
In general
(1)
Authority to increase amount of cash-value voucher
During the COVID–19 public health emergency declared under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
) and in response to challenges related to such public health emergency, the Secretary may increase the amount of a cash-value voucher under a qualified food package to an amount less than or equal to $35.
(2)
Application of increased amount of cash-value voucher to State agencies
(A)
Notification
An increase to the amount of a cash-value voucher under paragraph (1) shall apply to any State agency that notifies the Secretary of the intent to use such an increased amount, without further application.
(B)
Use of increased amount
A State agency that notifies the Secretary under subparagraph (A) may use or not use the increased amount described in such subparagraph during the period beginning on the date of the notification by the State agency under such subparagraph and ending September 30, 2020.
(3)
Application period
An increase to the amount of a cash-value voucher under paragraph (1) may only apply during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this section and ending on September 30, 2020.
(4)
Sunset
The authority to make an increase to the amount of a cash-value voucher under paragraph (1) or to use such an increased amount under paragraph (2)(B) shall terminate on September 30, 2020.
(b)
Definitions
(1)
Cash-value voucher
The term
cash-value voucher
has the meaning given the term in section 246.2 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations.
(2)
Qualified food package
The term
qualified food package
means the following food packages under section 246.10(e) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations:
(A)
Food Package IV–Children 1 through 4 years.
(B)
Food Package V–Pregnant and partially (mostly) breastfeeding women.
(C)
Food Package VI–Postpartum women.
(D)
Food Package VII–Fully breast­feed­ing.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(4)
State agency
The term
State agency
has the meaning given the term in section 17(b) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 1786(b)
).
