1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Corporal Ronil Singh and Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act
.
2.
Calculation of eligibility
Section 473(b)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1087mm(b)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting
, or spouse
after
guardian
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (C), by insert
, or spouse’s
after
guardian’s
.
3.
Calculation of Pell Grant amount
Section 401(b)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070a(b)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking the matter preceding clause (i) of subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
(2)
(A)
Subject to subparagraph (C), the amount of the Federal Pell Grant for a student eligible under this part shall be—
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
In the case of a student who meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A), (B)(ii), and (C) of section 473(b)(2)—
(i)
clause (ii) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall be applied by substituting
from the amounts appropriated in the last enacted appropriation Act applicable to that award year, an amount equal to the amount of the increase calculated under paragraph (7)(B) for that year
for
the amount of the increase calculated under paragraph (7)(B) for that year
; and
(ii)
such student—
(I)
shall be provided an amount under clause (i) of this subparagraph only to the extent that funds are specifically provided in advance in an appropriation Act to such students for that award year; and
(II)
shall not be eligible for the amounts made available pursuant to clauses (i) through (iii) of paragraph (7)(A).
.
4.
Budgetary Effects
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled
Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation
for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Budget Committee of the House of Representatives, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
5.
Effective date
This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on June 1, 2019.
