1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Humane Retirement Act
.
2.
Establishment of adoption policy for public health service agencies with respect to retired dogs and cats
Section 495 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 289d
) is amended by adding the following:
(f)
Establishment of adoption policy for public health service agencies with respect to retired dogs
and cats
(1)
In general
Beginning one year after the date of the enactment of this subsection, guidelines of the Secretary under subsection (a)(3) shall require animal care committees described in such subsection that conduct biomedical and behavioral research at Public Health Service funded Federal agencies to, after the completion of any testing or research involving a dog or cat and prior to euthanizing such dog or cat, make a reasonable effort to offer such dog or cat for adoption, if suitable, in accordance with the following:
(A)
Such an animal care committee shall, after the completion of such testing or research involving a dog or cat and prior to euthanizing such dog or cat, assess the health and temperament of the dog or cat and determine whether it is suitable for adoption.
(B)
If found to be suitable for adoption, such an animal care committee shall make reasonable efforts to offer for adoption the dog or cat to an adopting party.
(2)
Rules of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as—
(A)
creating a duty upon an adopting party to accept a dog or cat offered by an animal care committee described in paragraph (1); or
(B)
prohibiting such committee from euthanizing a dog or cat if the requirements of this subsection are otherwise met.
(3)
Liability
An animal care committee described in paragraph (1) and any officer, director, employee, or agent of such committee are immune from civil liability for any act or omission relating to the adoption of a dog or cat pursuant to this subsection.
(4)
Adopting party defined
For purposes of this subsection, the term
adopting party
means—
(A)
an individual adopting a dog or cat through private placement;
(B)
an animal rescue organization;
(C)
an animal shelter organization;
(D)
a society for the prevention of cruelty to animals;
(E)
a humane society; or
(F)
an animal protective association that operates physical animal sheltering facilities and offers households pets to the public for adoption by way of an established adoption program.
.
