1.
Anti-harassment and anti-sexual assault policy of the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 5
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
533.
Anti-harassment and anti-sexual assault policy
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a comprehensive policy to end harassment and sexual assault, including sexual and gender-based harassment, at all facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs. This policy shall include the following:
(1)
Responses to incidents of harassment and sexual assault committed by any veteran or other public visitor within a facility of the Department.
(2)
Responses to incidents of harassment and sexual assault of any veteran or other public visitor within a facility of the Department.
(3)
A process for reporting and responding to harassment and sexual assault described in paragraph (1).
(4)
A process for reporting and responding to harassment and sexual assault described in paragraph (2).
(5)
A mandatory reporting requirement applicable to any employee or contractor of the Department who witnesses harassment or sexual assault within a facility of the Department.
(6)
Mandatory annual training for employees and contractors of the Department regarding how to report and address harassment and sexual assault described in paragraphs (1) and (2).
(7)
Annual distribution of anti-harassment and anti-sexual assault educational materials by mail or email to each individual entitled to a benefit under a law administered by the Secretary.
(8)
The prominent display of anti-harassment and anti-sexual assault messages in each facility of the Department, including how to report harassment and sexual assault at such facility.
(9)
The posting of anti-harassment and anti-sexual assault banners on websites of the Department, including eBenefits.va.gov and myHealthEVet.va.gov.
(b)
Points of contact
The Secretary shall designate, as a point of contact to receive reports of harassment and sexual assault—
(1)
at least one individual at each facility of the Department, with regards to that facility;
(2)
at least one individual employed in each Veterans Integrated Service Network (
VISN
), with regards to facilities in that VISN; and
(3)
at least one individual employed at the Central Office of the Department to track reports of harassment across the Department, disaggregated by facility.
(c)
Reporting
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives an annual report on harassment and sexual assault in facilities of the Department. Each such report shall include the following:
(1)
Results of harassment and sexual assault programming, including the End Harassment program.
(2)
Results of studies from the Women’s Health Practice Based Research Network related to harassment and sexual assault.
(3)
Data collected on incidents of sexual harassment and sexual assault.
(4)
A description of any actions taken by the Secretary during the year preceding the date of the report to stop harassment and sexual assault at facilities of the Department.
(5)
An assessment of the implementation of the training required in subsection (a)(5).
(6)
A list of resources the Secretary determines necessary to prevent harassment and sexual assault at facilities of the Department.
.
(b)
Technical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding after the item relating to section 532 the following new item:
533. Anti-harassment and anti-sexual assault policy.
.
(c)
Deadline
The Secretary shall carry out section 533 of such title, as added by subsection (a), not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
