1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Essential Workers Act
.
2.
National COVID–19 personal protective equipment clearinghouse
(a)
In general
Beginning not later than 2 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish and maintain an internet clearinghouse of information on suppliers of personal protective equipment needed to prevent the spread of COVID–19 or any other pathogen triggering a public health emergency declaration.
(b)
Requirements
Subject to subsection (c), the internet clearinghouse established under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
identify available personal protective equipment by—
(A)
conducting outbound sourcing to identify manufacturers and distributers of personal protective equipment;
(B)
soliciting information from manufacturers and distributers of available personal protective equipment;
(C)
verifying manufacturer and distributer regulatory status;
(D)
verifying supporting documentation of supplier registration, factory, and product certifications;
(E)
collecting information on product pricing, minimum order quantities, lead time, supply resilience, and availability; and
(F)
verifying product prices to ensure that no price violates antiprice gouging laws;
(2)
provide transparent information about personal protective equipment availability, dissemination, and procurement opportunities by making available information collected pursuant to paragraph (1); and
(3)
be established in a manner that allows the information collected to be available to the public and government, including—
(A)
health care providers;
(B)
workers deemed essential by public officials during the COVID–19 pandemic and any subsequent pandemics triggering public health emergency declarations;
(C)
any State, local, or Tribal government; and
(D)
local emergency operations centers and health departments.
(c)
Inclusion of suppliers only on voluntary basis
The Secretary may include in the internet clearinghouse established under subsection (a) information with respect to a supplier (including any manufacturer or distributor) only if the supplier agrees to be referenced in the clearinghouse, in which case the supplier shall agree to provide to the Secretary the information listed in subsection (b)(1).
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
personal protective equipment
—
(A)
means equipment designated to protect individuals from the spread of infection or illness, as determined by the Secretary; and
(B)
includes any such disinfecting wipes, helmets, gloves, face shields, hand sanitizer, goggles, facemasks, protective clothing, and respirators.
(2)
The term
State
means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
(3)
The term
Tribal
, with respect to a department of health (or health department), includes—
(A)
Indian Tribes that—
(i)
are operating 1 or more health facilities pursuant to an agreement under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.); or
(ii)
receive services from a facility operated by the Indian Health Services; and
(B)
Tribal organizations (as the term
tribal organization
is defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
)) and Urban Indian organizations (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (
25 U.S.C. 1603
)).
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section, to be derived exclusively from unobligated amounts in the Public Health and Social Emergency Fund.
