1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Department of Homeland Security Secure Mail Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
the terms
Signature Confirmation service
and
Priority Mail Signature Confirmation Restricted Delivery service
means the services described in section 503.8.1.1.a and 503.8.1.1.b, respectively, of the Domestic Mail Manual (or any successor services);
(2)
the term
Immigration Examinations Fee Account
means the account established under section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1356(m)
);
(3)
the term
Postal Service
means the United States Postal Service;
(4)
the term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security; and
(5)
the term
secure identity document
means an Employment Authorization Document, a Permanent Resident Card, a Travel Document (including advance parole document), or any other document so designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
3.
Use of Signature Confirmation and Priority Mail Signature Confirmation Restricted Delivery services to deliver secure identity document
(a)
In general
Beginning not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide for an option under which a person to whom a document is sent may elect to use the United States Postal Service’s Signature Confirmation service or Priority Mail Signature Confirmation Restricted Delivery service (or any successor services) to send a secure identity document.
(b)
Notice of changes; application
(1)
Notice of changes
The Postal Service shall notify the Secretary of any changes to the Signature Confirmation service or the Priority Mail Signature Confirmation Restricted Delivery service.
(2)
Application
In carrying out subsection (a), the Postal Service shall allow any individual represented by an attorney or accredited representative and who elects to have a secure identity document delivered by a service described in such subsection to elect that such document may be delivered to any employee of such attorney or accredited representative.
(c)
Use of private carrier
(1)
In general
If the Secretary determines that a private carrier that offers substantially similar services to the Signature Confirmation service or the Priority Mail Signature Confirmation Restricted Delivery service would provide better service and value than the Postal Service provides under subsection (a), the Secretary may, in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subsection—
(A)
decline or discontinue use of the Signature Confirmation service or Priority Mail Signature Confirmation Restricted Delivery service under subsection (a); and
(B)
enter into a contract with the private carrier to provide such substantially similar services.
(2)
Requirements
The Secretary may not exercise the authority under paragraph (1) unless the Secretary determines, and notifies the Postal Service, that the private carrier offers services that are substantially similar to the Signature Confirmation service or Priority Mail Signature Confirmation Restricted Delivery service.
4.
Report
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that describes—
(1)
the implementation of the requirements under section 3; and
(2)
the number of times during the previous year that a person used a service under subsection (a) or (c)(1)(B) of section 3.
