1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Rapid Testing for Communities Act of 2020
.
2.
Grants for same-day point-of-care clinical laboratory diagnostic testing in communities
Section 2821 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300hh–31
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c);
(2)
in subsection (c), as so redesignated—
(A)
by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively, and moving the margin of each such redesignated subparagraph 2 ems to the right; and
(B)
by striking
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
and inserting the following:
(1)
In general
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (a)
;
(3)
by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
(b)
Grants for same-Day point-of-Care clinical laboratory diagnostic testing in communities
(1)
Grants
The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall award grants to eligible entities to assist such entities in acquiring legally-marketed equipment and supplies capable of performing same-day clinical laboratory diagnostic testing in a point-of-care setting.
(2)
Eligibility
To be eligible for a grant under paragraph (1), an entity shall—
(A)
be—
(i)
a hospital;
(ii)
a primary care facility;
(iii)
a clinic;
(iv)
a physician; or
(v)
another type of health care provider as the Secretary may define; and
(B)
submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
(3)
Use of funds
Amounts received through a grant under this subsection shall be used to purchase legally-marketed rapid diagnostic equipment and such materials as are necessary to administer, store, and process same-day clinical laboratory diagnostic testing in a point-of-care setting, including diagnostic and serological tests.
(4)
Amount of grant
The amount of a grant under paragraph (1) may not exceed $20,000.
(5)
Priority in making awards
In awarding grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities providing services to—
(A)
medically underserved populations (as defined in section 330(b)(3)) in rural areas; and
(B)
all other areas.
; and
(4)
by adding at the end of subsection (c), as redesignated, the following new paragraph:
(2)
Authorization of Appropriations
(A)
In general
For the purpose of carrying out subsection (b), there is authorized to be appropriated $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2020, to remain available until expended.
(B)
Administrative expenses
Of the amount made available to carry out subsection (b) for any fiscal year, the Secretary may not use more than 5 percent of such amount for the expenses of administering this section.
.
