1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
The Commuter Parkway Safety and Reliability Act
.
2.
Prioritization
Section 203(a) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(6)
Prioritization
(A)
In general
The Director of the National Park Service shall prioritize the funds made available under the Federal lands transportation program for high-commuter corridors.
(B)
Transfer for high-commuter corridors
(i)
Request
If the Director determines that a high-commuter corridor requires additional investment, based on the criteria described in clause (iv), the Director, with respect to such corridor, shall submit to the State—
(I)
information on condition of pavements and bridges;
(II)
an estimate of the amounts needed to bring such corridor into a state of good repair, taking into consideration any planned future investments; and
(III)
at the discretion of the Director, a request that the State transfer to the National Park Service, under the authority of section 132, or to the Federal Highway Administration, under the authority of section 104, a portion of such amounts necessary to address the condition of the corridor.
(ii)
State response
Not later than 45 days after the date of receipt of the request described in clause (i)(III), the State shall—
(I)
approve the request;
(II)
deny the request and explain the reasons for such denial; or
(III)
request any additional information necessary to take action on the request.
(iii)
Notification to the Secretary
The Director shall provide to the Secretary of Transportation a copy of any request or response described under clauses (i)(III) and (ii).
(iv)
Criteria
In making a determination under clause (i), the Director, with respect to the corridor, shall consider—
(I)
the condition of roads, bridges, and tunnels; and
(II)
the average annual daily traffic.
(C)
High-commuter corridor defined
In this paragraph, the term
high-commuter corridor
means a Federal lands transportation facility administered by the National Park Service that has average annual daily traffic of not less than 20,000 vehicles.
.
