1.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Federal land
The term
Federal land
means the approximately 7,167 acres of land managed by the Bureau of Land Management designated as
Proposed Conveyance—San Felipe Pueblo
on the map.
(2)
Map
The term
map
means the map titled
Ball Ranch ACEC & Additional BLM Land
and dated October 26, 2018.
(3)
Pueblo
The term
Pueblo
means the San Felipe Pueblo in Sandoval County, New Mexico.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
2.
Conveyance to San Felipe Pueblo
(a)
Authorization for conveyance
Not later than 120 days after the date on which the Secretary receives a request from the Pueblo to convey, for no consideration, all of the Federal land (including mineral rights), subject to valid existing rights and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1712
, 1713), the Secretary shall convey to the Pueblo all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land.
(b)
Easements
The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be subject to the following conditions which shall be part of the deed for the conveyed Federal land:
(1)
Perpetual easements shall allow for the following access roads on the Federal land to the same extent as such access roads exist on the date of the enactment of this Act:
(A)
An access road of approximately 2.4 miles to the
Hamaatsa
inholding.
(B)
An access road of approximately 1.8 miles to the
Baca Family
inholding.
(2)
Subject to agreement with the Pueblo, a perpetual easement to allow federally recognized Indian Tribes to access and be on the conveyed Federal land in order to access cultural sites and for cultural and religious practices on the Federal land.
(3)
A requirement that the Pueblo maintain the access roads referred to in paragraph (1) to the same engineering standards that the Bureau of Land Management was required to maintain such roads on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Grazing
If Federal land is subject to a lease, permit, or contract for the grazing of domestic livestock in effect on the date of the conveyance of the Federal land under this Act, the grazing may, at the discretion of the Pueblo, continue for the remainder of the term of the lease, permit, or contract, subject to the related terms and conditions of user agreements, including permitted stocking rates, grazing fee levels, access, and ownership and use of range improvements.
(d)
Costs
The United States shall pay all costs of the conveyance under subsection (a).
