1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Highways Coronavirus Relief Act
.
2.
Temporary modifications to Federal share payable
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered funds
The term
covered funds
means—
(A)
funds apportioned to a State under section 104 of title 23, United States Code; and
(B)
funds allocated to Puerto Rico under section 165 of that title.
(2)
State
The term
State
means any of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
(b)
Temporary modification
Notwithstanding section 120 of title 23, United States Code, or any other provision of law, except as provided in subsection (f), at the request of a State or Puerto Rico, as applicable, the Federal share applicable with respect to covered funds shall be up to 100 percent for obligations described in subsection (c).
(c)
Obligations described
The obligations referred to in subsection (b) are—
(1)
obligations that, on the date of enactment of this Act, are existing and unliquidated; or
(2)
obligations made during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 2021.
(d)
Existing obligations
An increased Federal share under this section shall only be applied to an obligation described in subsection (c)(1)—
(1)
during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 2021; and
(2)
if the obligation remains unliquidated at the time of modification of the Federal share under this section.
(e)
Continuation of increased Federal share
(1)
In general
Except as described in paragraph (2), if an increased Federal share is applied under this section to an obligation described in subsection (c), the increased Federal share shall continue to apply after September 30, 2021.
(2)
Deobligation
If an increased Federal share is applied under this section to an obligation described in subsection (c) and the funds are deobligated on or after October 1, 2021, this section shall not apply to any reobligation of the funds.
(f)
Exception
Subsection (b) shall not apply to amounts initially authorized under section 115 of title 23, United States Code, in or after fiscal year 2021.
