1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Africa Foreign Relations, International Cooperation, and Assistance Act of 2020
or the
AFRICA Act of 2020
.
2.
Report on enhancing partnerships between the United States and African countries
(a)
In general
Not later than June 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the activities and resources required to enhance security and economic partnerships between the United States and African countries.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of the infrastructure accessible to the Department of Defense on the continent of Africa.
(2)
An identification of the ability of the Department to conduct freedom of movement on the continent, including identifying the activities of partners, allies, and other Federal departments and agencies that are facilitated by the Department’s ability to conduct freedom of movement.
(3)
Recommendations to meet the requirements identified in paragraph (2), including—
(A)
dual-use infrastructure projects;
(B)
military construction;
(C)
the acquisition of additional mobility capability by African countries or the United States Armed Forces, including strategic air lift, tactical air lift, or sealift capability; or
(D)
any other option as determined by the Secretary.
(4)
Recommendations to expand and strengthen partner and ally capability, including traditional activities of the combatant commands, train and equip opportunities, partnerships with the National Guard and the United States Coast Guard, and multilateral contributions.
(5)
Recommendations for enhancing joint exercises and training.
(6)
An analysis of the security, economic, and stability benefits of the recommendations identified under paragraphs (3) through (5).
(7)
(A)
A plan to fully resource United States force posture, capabilities, and stability operations, including—
(i)
a detailed assessment of the resources required to address the elements described in paragraphs (2) through (5), including specific cost estimates for recommended investments or projects; and
(ii)
a detailed timeline to achieve the recommendations described in paragraphs (2) through (4).
(B)
The specific cost estimates required by subparagraph (A)(i) shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include the following:
(i)
With respect to procurement accounts—
(I)
amounts displayed by account, budget activity, line number, line item, and line item title; and
(II)
a description of the requirements for each such amount.
(ii)
With respect to research, development, test, and evaluation accounts—
(I)
amounts displayed by account, budget activity, line number, program element, and program element title; and
(II)
a description of the requirements for each such amount.
(iii)
With respect to operation and maintenance accounts—
(I)
amounts displayed by account title, budget activity title, line number, and subactivity group title; and
(II)
a description of the specific manner in which each such amount would be used.
(iv)
With respect to military personnel accounts—
(I)
amounts displayed by account, budget activity, budget subactivity, and budget subactivity title; and
(II)
a description of the requirements for each such amount.
(v)
With respect to each project under military construction accounts (including unspecified minor military construction and amounts for planning and design), the country, location, project title, and project amount for each fiscal year.
(vi)
With respect to any expenditure or proposed appropriation not described in clauses (i) through (iv), a level of detail equivalent or greater than the level of detail provided in the future-years defense program submitted pursuant to section 221(a) of title 10, United States Code.
(c)
Considerations
In preparing the report required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider—
(1)
the economic development and stability of African countries;
(2)
the strategic and economic value of the relationships between the United States and African countries;
(3)
the military, intelligence, diplomatic, developmental, and humanitarian efforts of China and Russia on the African continent; and
(4)
the ability of the United States, allies, and partners to combat violent extremist organizations operating in Africa.
(d)
Form
The report required under subsection (a) may be submitted in classified form, but shall include an unclassified summary.
(e)
Interim briefing required
Not later than April 15, 2021, the Secretary of Defense (acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), and the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation) and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall provide to the congressional defense committees a joint interim briefing, and any written comments the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff consider necessary, with respect to their assessments of the report anticipated to be submitted under subsection (a).
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Dual-use infrastructure projects
The term
dual-use infrastructure projects
means projects that may be used for either military or civilian purposes.
(2)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the congressional defense committees; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
3.
Expanding the state partnership program in Africa
The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, shall seek to build partner capacity and interoperability in the United States Africa Command area of responsibility through increased partnerships with countries on the African continent, military-to-military engagements, and traditional activities of the combatant commands.
