1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
End the Cyprus Arms Embargo Act of 2019
.
2.
Modification of requirements on transfer of articles on the United States munitions list to Cyprus
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the direct sale or transfer of arms by the United States to Cyprus would advance United States security interests in Europe by helping to reduce the dependence of the Government of Cyprus on other countries for defense-related materiel, including countries that pose challenges to United States interests around the world; and
(2)
it is in the interest of the United States—
(A)
to continue to support United Nations-facilitated efforts toward a comprehensive solution to the division of Cyprus; and
(B)
for the Republic of Cyprus to join NATO’s Partnership for Peace program.
(b)
Modification of prohibition
Section 620C(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2373(e)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
The requirement under paragraph (1) shall not apply to any sale or other provision of any defense article or defense service to Cyprus if the end-user of such defense or defense service is Cyprus.
.
(c)
Exclusion of the Government of the Republic of Cyprus from certain related regulations
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall not apply a policy of denial for exports, re-exports, or transfers of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in the Republic of Cyprus if—
(1)
the request is made by or on behalf of Cyprus; and
(2)
the end-user of such defense articles or defense services is Cyprus.
(d)
Exception
This exclusion shall not apply to any denial based upon credible human rights concerns.
(e)
Limitations on the transfer of articles on the united states munitions list to the republic of cyprus
(1)
In general
The policy of denial for exports, re-exports, or transfers of defense articles on the United States Munitions List to the Republic of Cyprus shall remain in place unless the President determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees not less than annually that—
(A)
the Government of the Republic of Cyprus is continuing to cooperate with the United States Government in efforts to implement reforms on anti-money laundering regulations and financial regulatory oversight; and
(B)
the Government of the Republic of Cyprus has made and is continuing to take the steps necessary to deny Russian military vessels access to ports for refueling and servicing.
(2)
Waiver
The President may waive the limitations contained in this subsection for one fiscal year if the President determines that it is essential to the national security interests of the United States to do so.
(3)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
