1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expositions Provide Opportunities Act of 2019
or
EXPO Act of 2019
.
2.
State Department authorization for pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding section 204 of the
Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001
(
22 U.S.C. 2452b
), the Secretary of State is authorized, subject to subsections (b) and (c) of this section, to provide funds for a United States pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai.
(b)
Notification
No funds made available to the Department of State to be used for a pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai may be obligated or expended unless the appropriate congressional committees are notified not less than 15 days prior to such obligation or expenditure.
(c)
Report
The Secretary of State may not provide funds for a United States pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai unless, not later than the date that is 180 days before such pavilion is opened, the Secretary of State submits to the appropriate congressional committees a report concerning activities relating to such pavilion, including—
(1)
a description of the source of such funds, including any funds reprogrammed or transferred by the Department of State to be made available for such pavilion;
(2)
an estimate of the amount of investment such pavilion could bring to the United States;
(3)
an analysis of the human rights record of the United Arab Emirates; and
(4)
a certification that each entity receiving amounts for a contract, grant, or other agreement to construct, maintain, or otherwise service such pavilion is not in violation of the labor laws of the United Arab Emirates and do not employ, or otherwise utilize, a victim of trafficking (as defined in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7102
)).
(d)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the following:
(1)
The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
(e)
Sunset
This section ceases to be effective on September 30, 2021.
