1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fostering Innovation Act of 2019
.
2.
Temporary exemption for low-revenue issuers
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (
15 U.S.C. 7262
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Temporary exemption for low-Revenue issuers
(1)
Low-revenue exemption
Subsection (b) shall not apply with respect to an audit report prepared for an issuer that—
(A)
ceased to be an emerging growth company on the last day of the fiscal year of the issuer following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of common equity securities of the issuer pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933;
(B)
had average annual gross revenues of less than $50,000,000 as of its most recently completed fiscal year; and
(C)
is not a large accelerated filer.
(2)
Expiration of temporary exemption
An issuer ceases to be eligible for the exemption described under paragraph (1) at the earliest of—
(A)
the last day of the fiscal year of the issuer following the tenth anniversary of the date of the first sale of common equity securities of the issuer pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933;
(B)
the last day of the fiscal year of the issuer during which the average annual gross revenues of the issuer exceed $50,000,000; or
(C)
the date on which the issuer becomes a large accelerated filer.
(3)
Definitions
For purposes of this subsection:
(A)
Average annual gross revenues
The term
average annual gross revenues
means the total gross revenues of an issuer over its most recently completed three fiscal years divided by three.
(B)
Emerging growth company
The term
emerging growth company
has the meaning given such term under section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
15 U.S.C. 78c
).
(C)
Large accelerated filer
The term
large accelerated filer
has the meaning given that term under section 240.12b–2 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto.
.
