1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Maintaining Appropriate Protections for Legal Entry Act of 2019
or the
MAPLE Act of 2019
.
2.
Admissibility of aliens acting in accordance with State and foreign marijuana laws
Section 212(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A)(i)(II), by inserting after the comma at the end the following:
except in the case of a law or regulation of the United States related to marijuana, which conduct was lawful in the State, Indian Tribe, or foreign country in which the conduct occurred, or a law or regulation of a State, Indian Tribe, or foreign country related to marijuana, which conduct was subsequently made lawful under the law or regulation of such jurisdiction,
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (C)(i), by inserting after
endeavored to do so
the following:
, except with respect to trafficking, sale, or distribution of marijuana if the conduct was lawful or subsequently made lawful in the State, Indian Tribe, or foreign country in which it occurred
.
3.
Deportability of aliens acting in accordance with State and foreign marijuana laws
Section 237(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(2)(B)(i)
) is amended by inserting after
marijuana
the following:
, an offense under a law or regulation of the United States related to marijuana, which conduct was lawful in the State, Indian Tribe, or foreign country in which the conduct occurred, or an offense under a law or regulation of a State, Indian Tribe, or foreign country related to marijuana, which conduct was subsequently made lawful under the law or regulation of such jurisdiction
.
4.
Aggravated felony
Section 101(a)(43)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(43)(B)
) is amended by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following:
, except with respect to trafficking, sale, or distribution of marijuana if the conduct was lawful or subsequently made lawful in the State, Indian Tribe, or foreign country in which it occurred
.
