1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
TSA Child Care Availability and Resources for Employees Act
or the
TSA Child CARE Act
.
2.
TSA child care availability assessment
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) shall commission an assessment of the policies, procedures, and practices of the Administration regarding Administration personnel who are parents or guardians of a dependent minor with child care needs or who are expectant parents or guardians of a dependent minor with child care needs. Such assessment shall also examine any impact on recruitment, retention, and career advancement of such policies, procedures, and practices. Such assessment shall be conducted by a federally funded research and development center established pursuant to section 305 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 185
) or a national academy or laboratory with appropriate expertise, as determined by the Administrator.
(b)
Contents
The assessment required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of the impacts of TSA policies, procedures, and practices that relate to the following:
(A)
Job requirements.
(B)
Personnel management.
(C)
Shift scheduling practices.
(2)
An assessment of whether TSA provides adequate breaks for expectant mothers.
(3)
An assessment of the efficacy of policies for Administration personnel who are lactating mothers.
(4)
The feasibility of enhancing the availability of child care facilities and services for such personnel, including by providing needs-based subsidies and through collaboration with collocated Federal, State, or local agencies or businesses.
(5)
Recommendations for improving such policies, procedures, and practices regarding such personnel who are parents or guardians of a dependent minor with child care needs or who are expectant parents or guardians of a dependent minor with child care needs.
(c)
Consultation
The entity conducting the assessment required under subsection (a) shall consult with appropriate stakeholders, including labor organizations (including the labor organization representing security screening personnel), airport operators, air carriers, and other aviation industry stakeholders.
(d)
Submission to Congress
Not later than 90 days after the completion of the assessment required under subsection (a), the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate such assessment, together with a plan for responding to such assessment, including timelines for implementing any recommendations included therein.
