1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Inclusive Diabetes Research and Education Act
.
2.
Research, education, and other activities
Part B of title III of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 243
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
317V.
Diabetes in minority populations
(a)
Research and other activities
(1)
In general
The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall conduct and support research and public health activities with respect to diabetes in minority populations.
(2)
Certain activities
Activities under paragraph (1) regarding diabetes in minority populations shall include the following:
(A)
Further enhancing the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey by oversampling Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders in appropriate geographic areas to better determine the prevalence of diabetes in such populations as well as to improve the data collection of diabetes penetration disaggregated into major ethnic groups within such populations. The Secretary shall ensure that any such oversampling does not reduce the oversampling of other minority populations including African-American and Latino populations.
(B)
Through the Division of Diabetes Translation—
(i)
providing for prevention research to better understand how to influence health care systems changes to improve quality of care being delivered to such populations;
(ii)
carrying out model demonstration projects to design, implement, and evaluate effective diabetes prevention and control interventions for minority populations, including culturally appropriate community-based interventions;
(iii)
developing and implementing a strategic plan to reduce diabetes in minority populations through applied research to reduce disparities and culturally and linguistically appropriate community-based interventions;
(iv)
supporting, through the national diabetes prevention program under section 399V–3, diabetes prevention program sites in underserved regions highly impacted by diabetes; and
(v)
implementing, through the national diabetes prevention program under section 399V–3, a demonstration program developing new metrics measuring health outcomes related to diabetes that can be stratified by specific minority populations.
(b)
Education
The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall direct the Division of Diabetes Translation to conduct and support both programs to educate the public on diabetes in minority populations and programs to educate minority populations about the causes and effects of diabetes.
(c)
Diabetes; health promotion, prevention activities, and access
The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Diabetes Education Program, shall conduct and support programs to educate specific minority populations through culturally appropriate and linguistically appropriate information campaigns about prevention of, and managing, diabetes.
(d)
Definition
For purposes of this section, the term
minority population
means a racial and ethnic minority group, as defined in section 1707.
.
