1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Honoring Abbas Family Legacy to Terminate Drunk Driving Act
or the
HALT Drunk Driving Act
.
2.
Advanced alcohol detection devices
(a)
In general
Not later than September 30, 2024, the Secretary of Transportation shall prescribe a motor vehicle safety standard under
chapter 301
of title 49, United States Code, that requires motor vehicles produced after the effective date of such standard to be equipped with an advanced alcohol detection device that—
(1)
determines the blood alcohol concentration of the operator of the vehicle; and
(2)
if the blood alcohol concentration determined by the device is equal to or greater than the blood alcohol concentration specified in section 163(a) of title 23, United States Code, prevents the vehicle from being operated.
(b)
Development
The Secretary of Transportation shall work directly with motor vehicle manufacturers, suppliers, and other interested parties, including universities with expertise in automotive engineering, to—
(1)
accelerate the development of the advanced alcohol detection devices described in subsection (a);
(2)
ensure the integration of such devices into motor vehicles available for sale at the earliest practical date; and
(3)
ensure the creation of market demand for such devices.
(c)
Fleet demonstration
(1)
In general
Not later than September 30, 2022, the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shall enter into an agreement with the Administrator of General Services to carry out a program to equip the advanced alcohol detection devices described in subsection (a) on not less than 1,500 covered fleet vehicles (as defined in section 241 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7581
)) owned or operated by an agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States.
(2)
Requirement
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shall ensure that fleet vehicles—
(A)
are driven not less than 3 days per week; and
(B)
are located in various regions in the United States.
(3)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 to carry out this subsection.
(d)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
motor vehicle
and
motor vehicle safety standard
have the meanings given such terms in section 30102 of title 49, United States Code.
