1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stopping Malign Activities from Russian Terrorism Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2)
State sponsor of terrorism
The term
state sponsor of terrorism
means a country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of section 1754(c)(1)(A)(i) of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (
50 U.S.C. 4813(c)(1)(A)(i)
), section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2371
), section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2780
), or any other provision of law, is a government that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.
3.
Determination on the designation of the Russian Federation as a state sponsor of terrorism
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a determination to the appropriate congressional committees that indicates whether the Russian Federation meets the criteria to be designated as a state sponsor of terrorism.
(b)
Form
The determination required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex, if appropriate.
4.
Determination on the designation of the Russian-supported armed forces in the Donbas region of Ukraine as foreign terrorist organizations
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a determination to the appropriate congressional committees that indicates whether armed entities that are physically present in the Donbas region of Ukraine and are controlled or aided by the Russian Federation, or armed entities that are associated or controlled by the
Donetsk People’s Republic
or the
Lugansk People’s Republic
, meet the criteria to be designated as foreign terrorist organizations under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
).
(b)
Form
The determination required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex, if appropriate.
5.
Rules of construction
Nothing in this Act may be construed—
(1)
to authorize the use of military force; or
(2)
to limit bilateral military-to-military dialogue between the United States and the Russian Federation for the purpose of reducing the risk of conflict.
