1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Indian Programs Advanced Appropriations Act
.
2.
Authorization for advance appropriations
(a)
In General
For each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2020, new budget authority provided in an appropriations Act for the covered accounts shall—
(1)
be made available for that fiscal year; and
(2)
include, for each such account, advance new budget authority that first becomes available for the first fiscal year after the budget year.
(b)
Estimates Required
Each applicable Secretary shall include in documents submitted to Congress in support of the President's budget submitted pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, detailed estimates of the funds necessary for the covered accounts of the Department of the Interior or the Department of Health and Human Services, as applicable, for the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Applicable Secretary
The term
applicable Secretary
means—
(A)
with respect to actions involving the covered accounts described in paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary of the Interior; and
(B)
with respect to actions involving the covered accounts described in paragraph (2)(B), the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(2)
Covered Accounts
The term
covered accounts
means the following:
(A)
The following accounts of the Department of the Interior that provide annual appropriations for the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education account:
(i)
Operation of Indian Programs.
(ii)
Contract Support Costs.
(iii)
Indian Guaranteed Loan Program Account.
(B)
The following accounts of the Department of Health and Human Services that provide annual appropriations for the Indian Health Service account:
(i)
Indian Health Services.
(ii)
Contract Support Costs.
3.
Information on appropriations estimates
Section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(40)
information on estimates of appropriations for the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted for the covered accounts described in section 2(c)(2) of the
Indian Programs Advanced Appropriations Act
.
.
