1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act
.
2.
Legal services for homeless veterans and veterans at risk for homelessness
(a)
In general
Chapter 20
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2022
the following new section:
2022A.
Legal services for homeless veterans and veterans at risk for homelessness
(a)
Grants and cooperative agreements
Subject to the availability of appropriations provided for such purpose, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall make grants or enter into cooperative agreements to eligible entities that provide legal services to homeless veterans and veterans at risk for homelessness.
(b)
Criteria for grants and cooperative agreements
(1)
The Secretary shall establish criteria and requirements for grants and cooperative agreements under this section, including criteria for entities eligible to receive such grants or cooperative agreements, and shall publish such criteria and requirements in the Federal Register.
(2)
In establishing criteria and requirements under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with organizations that have experience in providing services to homeless veterans.
(c)
Eligible entities
The Secretary may make a grant or enter into a cooperative agreement under this section to an entity applying for such a grant or cooperative agreement only if the applicant for the grant or cooperative agreement—
(1)
is a public or nonprofit private entity with the capacity (as determined by the Secretary) to effectively administer a grant or cooperative agreement under this section;
(2)
demonstrates that adequate financial support will be available to carry out the services for which the grant or cooperative agreement is sought consistent with application; and
(3)
agrees to meet the applicable criteria and requirements established under subsection (b) and has, as determined by the Secretary, demonstrated the capacity to meet such criteria and requirements.
(d)
Use of funds
Funds provided under grants or cooperative agreements under this section shall be used to provide legal services to homeless veterans and veterans at risk for homelessness to address legal matters that contribute to the risk of becoming and remaining homeless.
(e)
Reports
On a biennial basis, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on grants and cooperative agreements under this section. To the extent feasible, each such report shall include the following with respect to the year covered by the report:
(1)
The number of homeless veterans assisted.
(2)
A description of the legal services provided.
(3)
A description of the legal matters addressed.
(4)
An analysis by the Secretary with respect to the operational effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the services provided.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2022 the following new item:
2022A. Legal services for homeless veterans and veterans at risk for homelessness.
.
(c)
Criteria
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish the criteria and requirements in the Federal Register pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of section 2022A of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
