1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Homeland Security Assessment of Terrorists
Use of Ghost Guns Act
.
2.
Threat assessment on terrorist use of ghost guns
(a)
In general
The Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security shall, in coordination with appropriate Federal partners, annually develop and disseminate a terrorism threat assessment regarding the availability of ghost guns in furtherance of an act of terrorism, including the provision of material support or resources to a foreign terrorist organization. Consistent with the protection of classified and confidential unclassified information, the Under Secretary shall share the threat assessment developed under this section with State, local, and Tribal law enforcement officials, including officials who operate within State, local, and regional fusion centers through the Department of Homeland Security State, Local, and Regional Fusion Center Initiative established in accordance with section 210A of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 124h
).
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Foreign terrorist organization
The term
foreign terrorist organization
means an organization designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
).
(2)
Ghost gun
The term
ghost gun
means a firearm, including a frame or receiver, that lacks a unique serial number engraved or cast in metal, metal alloy, or plastic on the frame or receiver by a licensed manufacturer or importer, or is otherwise assembled, molded, machined, or 3D printed without being associated with a unique serial number.
(3)
Frame or receiver
The term
frame or receiver
means the part of a firearm that can provide the action or housing for the hammer, bolt, or breechblock and firing mechanism, and includes a frame or lower receiver blank, casting, or machined body that requires further machining or molding to be used as part of a firearm, and which is designed or intended to be used in the assembly of a functional firearm.
