1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fairness in Federal Drug Testing Under State Laws Act
.
2.
Federal employment and individuals using marijuana in compliance with State or tribal law
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 33
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
3330f.
Federal employment and individuals using marijuana in compliance with State or tribal law
(a)
(1)
An individual whose residence is in a State where that individual’s private use of marijuana is not prohibited, who is tested under a drug testing program of any Executive agency without probable cause to believe that the individual is under the influence of marijuana, who tests positive for past marijuana use (determined by the presence of tetrahydrocannabinol or marijuana metabolite in the sample provided by the individual), and, in the case of an individual whose use of marijuana was for medical purposes, who is able to provide documentation (in such form and manner as the Office of Personnel Management may prescribe) attesting to the lawful nature of such use under the law of the State, may not, based solely on such positive test, be—
(A)
denied employment at an Executive agency; or
(B)
if the individual is an employee of an Executive agency, subject to any adverse personnel action.
(2)
For purposes of this section—
(A)
the term
Executive agency
has the meaning given that term in section 105, and includes the United States Postal Service and the Postal Regulatory Commission;
(B)
the term
marijuana
means marihuana (as such term is defined in section 102(16) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802(16)
));
(C)
the term
individual
does not include any individual applying for or occupying a position at an Executive agency which requires a top secret clearance or access to a highly sensitive program (as that term is defined in section 3001(a)(4) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
50 U.S.C. 3341(a)(4)
)); and
(D)
the term
State
means—
(i)
any State or the District of Columbia;
(ii)
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, American Samoa, or any other territory or possession of the United States;
(iii)
the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau; or
(iv)
any land over which an Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
)) has jurisdiction or any land held in trust for an Indian tribe.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3330e the following:
3330f. Federal employment and individuals using marijuana in compliance with State or tribal law.
.
