1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prevent Family Fire Act of 2019
.
2.
Safe firearm storage credit
(a)
In general
Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
45T.
Safe firearm storage credit
(a)
Allowance of credit
For purposes of section 38, the safe firearm storage credit determined under this section for the taxable year is an amount equal to 10 percent of amounts received from the first retail sale of a safe firearm storage device for use within the United States.
(b)
Limitation
(1)
In general
The amount taken into account under subsection (a) with respect to a safe firearm storage device shall not exceed $400.
(2)
Value
If, in connection with a sale of a safe firearm storage device, the transferee receives other property, the amount taken into account under subsection (a) shall be limited to the amount received solely with respect to the safe firearm storage device, which shall be determined based on the value of the safe firearm storage device relative to the value of such other property.
(c)
Safe firearm storage device
For purposes of this section—
(1)
In general
The term
safe firearm storage device
means a device that is—
(A)
designed and marketed for the principal purpose of denying unauthorized access to, or rendering inoperable, a firearm or ammunition, and
(B)
secured by a combination lock, key lock, or lock based on biometric information which, once locked, is incapable of being opened without the combination, key, or biometric information, respectively.
(2)
Exclusion
The term
safe firearm storage device
does not include—
(A)
any device which is incorporated to any extent into the design of a firearm or of ammunition, or
(B)
any device that, as of the day of the sale described in subsection (a), has been subject to a mandatory recall by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
(3)
Firearm; ammunition
The terms
firearm
and
ammunition
have the meanings given such terms in section 921 of title 18, United States Code (without regard to all that follows
firearm silencer
in paragraph (3) of such section).
(d)
Termination
This section shall not apply to sales after December 31, 2026.
.
(b)
Credit made part of general business credit
Subsection (b) of
section 38
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
plus
at the end of paragraph (31), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (32) and inserting
, plus
, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(33)
the safe firearm storage credit determined under section 45T.
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
Sec. 45T. Safe firearm storage credit.
.
(d)
Report
The Secretary of the Treasury shall make publicly available an annual report of the credits against tax allowed by reason of section 45T, disaggregated by State.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
