1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Chesapeake Bay Oyster Research Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Chesapeake Bay Office of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall be the primary representative of the Administration in the Chesapeake Bay.
3.
Grants for researching oysters in the Chesapeake Bay
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of the Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, shall establish a grant program (in this section referred to as the
Program
) under which the Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities for the purpose of conducting research on the conservation, restoration, or management of oysters in the Chesapeake Bay.
(b)
Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Allocation of grant funds
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall award a grant under the Program to eligible entities that submit an application under subsection (b).
(2)
Matching requirement
(A)
In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the total amount of Federal funding received under the Program by an eligible entity may not exceed 85 percent of the total cost of the research project for which the funding was awarded. For the purposes of this subparagraph, the non-Federal share of project costs may be provided by in-kind contributions and other noncash support.
(B)
Waiver
The Secretary may waive all or part of the requirement in subparagraph (A) if the Secretary determines that no reasonable means are available through which an eligible entity applying for a grant under this section can meet such requirement and the probable benefit of such research project outweighs the public interest in such requirement.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Academic community
The term
academic community
means faculty, researchers, professors, and representatives of State-accredited colleges and universities.
(2)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means a member of the academic community, the seafood industry, a relevant nonprofit organization, or a relevant State agency, that is proposing or conducting a research project on the conservation, restoration, or management of oysters in the Chesapeake Bay developed through consultation with a member of the academic community, a member of the seafood industry, a relevant nonprofit organization, or a relevant State agency.
(3)
Nonprofit organization
The term
nonprofit organization
means an organization described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
(4)
Seafood industry
The term
seafood industry
means shellfish growers, shellfish harvesters, commercial fishermen, and recreational fishermen.
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2020 through 2025 to carry out this section.
