1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
AI for Consumer Product Safety Act
.
2.
Pilot program for use of artificial intelligence by Consumer Product Safety Commission
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall establish a pilot program to explore the use of artificial intelligence by the Commission in support of the consumer product safety mission of the Commission.
(b)
Requirements
In conducting the pilot program established under subsection (a), the Commission shall do the following:
(1)
Use artificial intelligence for at least one of the following purposes:
(A)
Tracking trends with respect to injuries involving consumer products.
(B)
Identifying consumer product hazards.
(C)
Monitoring the retail marketplace (including internet websites) for the sale of recalled consumer products (including both new and used products).
(D)
Identifying consumer products required by section 17(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (
15 U.S.C. 2066(a)
) to be refused admission into the customs territory of the United States.
(2)
Consult with the following:
(A)
Technologists, data scientists, and experts in artificial intelligence and machine learning.
(B)
Cybersecurity experts.
(C)
Members of the retail industry.
(D)
Consumer product manufacturers.
(E)
Consumer product safety organizations.
(F)
Any other person the Commission considers appropriate.
(c)
Report to Congress
Not later than 180 days after the conclusion of the pilot program established under subsection (a), the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and make publicly available on the website of the Commission, a report on the findings and data derived from such program, including whether and the extent to which the use of artificial intelligence improved the ability of the Commission to advance the consumer product safety mission of the Commission.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
(2)
Consumer product
The term
consumer product
has the meaning given such term in section 3(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (
15 U.S.C. 2052(a)
).
