1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Providing Financial Assistance for Safe Drinking Water Act
or the
PFAS Drinking Water Act
.
2.
Establishment of PFAS Infrastructure Grant Program
Part E of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
1459E.
Assistance for community water systems affected by PFAS
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish a program to award grants to affected community water systems to pay for capital costs associated with the implementation of eligible treatment technologies.
(b)
Applications
(1)
Guidance
Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall publish guidance describing the form and timing for community water systems to apply for grants under this section.
(2)
Required information
The Administrator shall require a community water system applying for a grant under this section to submit—
(A)
information showing the presence of PFAS in water of the community water system; and
(B)
a certification that the treatment technology in use by the community water system at the time of application is not sufficient to remove all detectable amounts of PFAS.
(c)
List of eligible treatment technologies
Not later than 150 days after the date of enactment of this section, and every two years thereafter, the Administrator shall publish a list of treatment technologies that the Administrator determines are effective at removing all detectable amounts of PFAS from drinking water.
(d)
Priority for funding
In awarding grants under this section, the Administrator shall prioritize affected community water systems that—
(1)
serve a disadvantaged community;
(2)
will provide at least a 10-percent cost share for the cost of implementing an eligible treatment technology; or
(3)
demonstrate the capacity to maintain the eligible treatment technology to be implemented using the grant.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section not more than $500,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2025.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Affected community water system
The term
affected community water system
means a community water system that is affected by the presence of PFAS in the water in the community water system.
(2)
Disadvantaged community
The term
disadvantaged community
has the meaning given that term in section 1452.
(3)
Eligible treatment technology
The term
eligible treatment technology
means a treatment technology included on the list published under subsection (c).
.
3.
Definition
Section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300f
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(17)
PFAS
The term
PFAS
means a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
.
