1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Innovative Energy Manufacturing Act of 2019
.
2.
Extension of the advanced energy project credit
(a)
In general
Section 48C
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f) and by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
(e)
Additional allocations
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall establish a program to designate amounts of qualifying advanced project credit limitation to qualifying advanced energy projects.
(2)
Annual limitation
(A)
In general
The amount of qualifying advanced project credit limitation that may be designated under this subsection during any calendar year shall not exceed the annual credit limitation with respect to such year.
(B)
Annual credit limitation
For purposes of this subsection, the term
annual credit limitation
means $2,500,000,000 for each of calendar years 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024, and zero thereafter.
(C)
Carryover of unused limitation
If the annual credit limitation for any calendar year exceeds the aggregate amount designated for such year under this subsection, such limitation for the succeeding calendar year shall be increased by the amount of such excess. No amount may be carried under the preceding sentence to any calendar year after 2024.
(3)
Placed in service deadline
No credit shall be determined under subsection (a) with respect to any property which is placed in service after the date that is 4 years after the date of the designation under this subsection relating to such property.
(4)
Selection criteria
Selection criteria similar to those in subsection (d)(3) shall apply, except that in determining designations under this subsection, the Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall give the highest priority to projects which manufacture (other than assembly of components) property described in a subclause of subsection (c)(1)(A)(i) (or components thereof).
(5)
Disclosure of designations
Rules similar to the rules of subsection (d)(5) shall apply for purposes of this subsection.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Progress report
During the 30-day period ending on December 31, 2025, the Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary’s delegate), after consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall submit a report to Congress on the domestic job creation, and wages associated with such jobs, attributable to the amendment made by this section.
