118 HRES 1216 IH: Expressing support for the goals and ideals of National Stroke Awareness Month.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1216
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 10, 2024
Mrs. Beatty
(for herself and
Mr. Fitzpatrick
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the goals and ideals of National Stroke Awareness Month.
Whereas stroke, also known as a cerebrovascular accident, is an acute neurologic injury that occurs when the blood supply to a part of the brain is interrupted by a clot in the artery or a burst of the artery;
Whereas stroke is a medical emergency that can cause permanent neurologic damage or even death if not promptly diagnosed and treated;
Whereas in the United States, stroke is now the fifth leading cause of death;
Whereas 1 person in the United States dies from stroke every 3 minutes and 14 seconds;
Whereas every year, approximately 795,000 people in the United States experience a new or recurrent stroke;
Whereas, in the United States, the total annual costs from stroke are $103,500,000,000 annually, with indirect costs (lost productivity and premature death) at $68,300,000,000;
Whereas the total annual costs of stroke in the United States are projected to increase to $240,670,000,000 by 2030, an increase of 129 percent from 2012;
Whereas stroke is a leading cause of serious long-term disability;
Whereas those disabilities may require ongoing physical, occupational, speech-language, and other therapy and surgeries;
Whereas the permanent health concerns and treatments resulting from stroke have a considerable impact on children, families, and society;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advises that the most effective stroke treatments are available only if the stroke is recognized and diagnosed within 3 hours of the first symptoms and recommends the public be familiar with and use the mnemonic F.A.S.T. to identify the signs and symptoms of stroke, including—
(1)
F—Face Drooping:
Ask the person to smile. Does one side of the face droop?
;
(2)
A—Arm Weakness:
Ask the person to raise both arms. Does one arm drift downward?
;
(3)
S—Speech Difficulty:
Ask the person to repeat a simple phrase. Is the speech slurred or strange?
; and
(4)
T—Time to Call 9–1–1:
If you see any of these signs, call 9–1–1 right away.
; and
Whereas May is recognized as National Stroke Awareness Month: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of National Stroke Awareness Month;
(2)
encourages the people of the United States to support the efforts, programs, services, and advocacy of organizations that work to enhance public awareness of stroke; and
(3)
encourages continued coordination and cooperation between government, researchers, families, and the public to improve prognoses by increasing access to timely treatments for individuals who suffer strokes.
