116 HRES 1606 IH: Honoring the 5th anniversary of the United States Space Force.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-12-04
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1606
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 4, 2024
Mr. Crow
(for himself,
Mr. Rogers of Alabama
,
Mr. Bacon
,
Mr. Carbajal
,
Mr. Lamborn
,
Mr. Lieu
,
Mr. Strong
,
Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
, and
Mr. Wittman
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
RESOLUTION
Honoring the 5th anniversary of the United States Space Force.
Whereas the United States Space Force (USSF), the Nation’s newest military branch, was officially established on December 20, 2019, by the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
);
Whereas the United States Space Force plays a critical role in maintaining and advancing the United States military readiness, superiority, and technological dominance in space;
Whereas space has emerged as a warfighting domain essential to national security, including safeguarding military communications, missile warning systems, global navigation, and intelligence operations;
Whereas the mission of the United States Space Force is to organize, train, and equip space professionals to ensure freedom of operation in, from, and to space, and to deter and defeat threats across the space domain;
Whereas the importance of the United States Space Force is growing in an era of geopolitical competition with adversaries who have developed capabilities to challenge United States and allied access to space;
Whereas the guardians of the United States Space Force are committed to defending national interests, enabling joint force operations, and protecting critical infrastructure in the increasingly contested space domain; and
Whereas the 5th anniversary of the United States Space Force is an occasion to honor the contributions of its personnel and recognize the installations that support its vital mission, including—
(1)
Clear Space Force Station—Anderson, Alaska;
(2)
Vandenberg Space Force Base—Lompoc, California;
(3)
Los Angeles Space Force Base—El Segundo, California;
(4)
Buckley Space Force Base—Aurora, Colorado;
(5)
Peterson Space Force Base—Colorado Springs, Colorado;
(6)
Schriever Space Force Base—Colorado Springs, Colorado;
(7)
Patrick Space Force Base—Brevard County, Florida;
(8)
Cape Canaveral Space Force Station—Cape Canaveral, Florida;
(9)
Pituffik Space Force Base—Pituffik, Greenland;
(10)
Cape Cod Space Force Station—Bourne, Massachusetts;
(11)
Cavalier Space Force Station—Cavalier, North Dakota; and
(12)
New Boston Space Force Station—New Boston, New Hampshire: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the fifth anniversary of the United States Space Force;
(2)
commends the dedication, professionalism, and service of the men and women of the United States Space Force, known as Guardians, for their contributions to national security;
(3)
acknowledges the critical role that the United States Space Force plays in protecting and maintaining the safety and security of the American people, allied forces, and global space infrastructure;
(4)
expresses a sense of Congress that space is a critical domain, and urges the United States Space Force to continue developing capabilities necessary to deter aggression and ensure the freedom of operations in space; and
(5)
honors the installations and facilities of the United States Space Force and the communities that support them for their role in advancing the mission of space superiority.
