118 HRES 1498 IH: Supporting the designation of ГўВҖВңNational Bourbon Heritage MonthГўВҖВқ.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1498
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 24, 2024
Mr. McGarvey
(for himself,
Mr. Barr
, and
Mr. Comer
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of
National Bourbon Heritage Month
.
Whereas bourbon is the only spirit distinctive to the United States, and Congress declared bourbon as
AmericaГўВҖВҷs Native Spirit
in 1964;
Whereas Kentucky is the birthplace of bourbon and the true home of AmericaГўВҖВҷs only native spirit;
Whereas Kentucky produces 95 percent of the worldГўВҖВҷs supply of bourbon;
Whereas Kentucky has 100 licensed distilleries operated by 84 companies in 42 counties;
Whereas bourbon contributes over $9 billion and 23,000 jobs to KentuckyГўВҖВҷs economy every year;
Whereas Kentucky distilleries shipped over $500 million of products abroad in 2022, most of which was bourbon;
Whereas bourbon production uses millions of bushels of corn and other grains grown by Kentucky farmers;
Whereas bourbon is synonymous with Kentucky all over the world;
Whereas Kentucky distillers play a critical role in promoting responsible consumption of their products and fighting against underage use, high-risk drinking, and impaired driving;
Whereas the Kentucky Bourbon Trail is celebrating its 25th anniversary this year; and
Whereas, during the month of September, the Federal Government, States, cities, and towns will celebrate
National Bourbon Heritage Month
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of RepresentativesГўВҖВ”
(1) supports the designation of
National Bourbon Heritage Month
;
(2) recognizes bourbon as
AmericaГўВҖВҷs Native Spirit
and celebrates its place in American history and culture; and
(3) recognizes the contributions of the Commonwealth of Kentucky to the culture of the United States.
