118 HRES 88 IH: Recognizing the significance of the Greensboro Four sit-in during Black History Month.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 88
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 1, 2023
Ms. Adams
(for herself,
Ms. Manning
,
Mr. Davis of North Carolina
,
Mrs. Foushee
,
Mr. Jackson of North Carolina
,
Mr. Nickel
, and
Ms. Ross
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the significance of the Greensboro Four sit-in during Black History Month.
Whereas February 1, 2023, is the 63d anniversary of the Greensboro Four sit-in;
Whereas February 1, 2023, also marks the beginning of Black History month, and America’s celebration of the contributions of Black Americans to America’s rich history and culture;
Whereas Joseph McNeil, Jibreel Khazan (formerly Ezell Blair, Jr.), Franklin McCain, and David Richmond are the members of the Greensboro Four;
Whereas the Greensboro Four attended North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University;
Whereas the Greensboro Four were refused service at the F.W. Woolworth cafeteria in Greensboro, North Carolina, on February 1, 1960;
Whereas the Greensboro Four ignited a movement to challenge racial inequality throughout the South;
Whereas the Greensboro Four were joined by female students from Bennett College and Greensboro Women’s College;
Whereas the sit-ins spread nationwide with over 700,000 people participating, including students, clergymen, and citizens, both White and Black;
Whereas the protests resulted in more than 3,000 arrests;
Whereas the Greensboro Four remained peaceful throughout the 6-month sit-in; and
Whereas the Woolworth Lunch Counter was integrated on July 26, 1960: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the Greensboro Four for their contribution to the civil rights movement and the significant role they played as a catalyst for the mobilization of college students in the civil rights movement coalescing in the formation of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee;
(2)
recognizes that ethnic and racial diversity of the United States enriches and strengthens the Nation;
(3)
recognizes the continued importance of sit-ins as an effective form of nonviolent resistance to spur positive social change; and
(4)
encourages all States to include in their educational curriculum the history and contributions of the Greensboro Four.
