118 HRES 442 IH: Expressing support for the designation of May 24 as “National Aviation Maintenance Technician Day” or “National AMT Day” to commemorate the work of aviation maintenance professionals.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 442
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 24, 2023
Ms. Scholten
(for herself,
Mr. Bacon
,
Mrs. McBath
, and
Ms. Williams of Georgia
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of May 24 as
National Aviation Maintenance Technician Day
or
National AMT Day
to commemorate the work of aviation maintenance professionals.
Whereas National AMT Day is an opportunity to celebrate the many contributions aviation maintenance technicians (AMTs) have made to the aviation industry and to recognize the important tasks carried out by AMTs every day;
Whereas National AMT Day was selected in honor of Charles Edward Taylor’s birthday, who worked with the Wright brothers and built the engine used to power their airplane;
Whereas the Nation’s AMTs are responsible for ensuring the safety and mechanical reliability and support of thousands of aircraft every day and have a critical role in keeping millions of people safe each year;
Whereas AMTs are responsible for servicing aircraft, aircraft engines, and aircraft components and avionics systems according to airline and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) specifications, and AMTs also perform inspections during assembly of parts and after repair or installation of components; document maintenance procedures including component damage, origin, and condition; and practice safety conscious behaviors in all operational processes and procedures;
Whereas every day, AMTs are working to provide high-quality service to Maintenance and Repair Organizations (MROs), airlines, and general aviation customers around the world, including the United States military;
Whereas the need for highly skilled aviation professionals such as AMTs continues to grow, as Boeing projects 610,000 new AMTs will be needed to maintain the global commercial aviation fleet over the next 20 years;
Whereas AMTs consist of the aviation industry’s top talent and enjoy competitive compensation, and the job of an AMT is a career position, and within 7 years, a 2-licensed AMT will make a salary of more than $100,000;
Whereas AMTs possess highly transferable skills that can be used across many industries, and specialty fields include avionics, welding, engine overhaul, composites, engineering, and more;
Whereas recruiting and workforce development strategies will continue to be key in order to train and obtain top AMTs in the coming years; and
Whereas May 24 is designated as
National AMT Day
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the contributions of aviation maintenance technicians, who are important airline professionals; and
(2)
encourages a continued spotlight on the important aviation careers of such technicians, now and in the future.
