118 HRES 1006 IH: Recognizing the birthday of legendary reggae artist Robert ГўВҖВңBobГўВҖВқ Nesta Marley.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-02-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1006
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 9, 2024
Ms. Clarke of New York
(for herself,
Mr. Johnson of Georgia
,
Ms. VelГғВЎzquez
, and
Mr. Payne
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the birthday of legendary reggae artist Robert
Bob
Nesta Marley.
Whereas each year on February 6, the life and legacy of Robert
Bob
Nesta Marley, singer, songwriter, and global civil and human rights advocate, is celebrated;
Whereas Bob Marley was a Jamaican-born reggae artist whose musical career began in the 1960s as a member of the popular group
The Wailers
;
Whereas The Wailers, led by Marley, won the Rolling StoneГўВҖВҷs Band of the Year award in 1976, and Marley went on to achieve international success as a solo artist with hits like
One Love
,
Jamming
,
No Woman, No Cry
, and
Redemption Song
;
Whereas Marley today is known as a cultural icon and credited as being one of the most influential musicians of the 20th century;
Whereas, in 1978, Marley was awarded the Peace Medal of the Third World by the United Nations, for his work to end social unrest in Jamaica;
Whereas Marley was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Rock Hall of Fame in 1994, and in 1999 Time Magazine recognized MarleyГўВҖВҷs album
Exodus
as the Album of the Century;
Whereas, in 2001, Marley received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and in the same month was awarded a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award for
outstanding artistic significance to the field of recording
;
Whereas MarleyГўВҖВҷs musical talents inspired generations and encouraged individuals of all ages, races, ethnic backgrounds, and walks of life; and
Whereas MarleyГўВҖВҷs music encompassed themes of love, peace, unity, empowerment, and continues to resonate and uplift people all over the world: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives acknowledges the life and impact of the legendary Robert
Bob
Nesta Marley on his 79th birthday.
