118 HRES 1480 IH: Recognizing Hispanic Restaurant Week and the contributions of Hispanic restaurant owners and employees to the restaurant industry.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1480
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 20, 2024
Ms. Caraveo
(for herself,
Ms. Salazar
,
Ms. Barragán
,
Mr. Ciscomani
,
Mr. Ruiz
,
Mr. Costa
,
Mr. Gallego
,
Mrs. Ramirez
,
Mrs. Napolitano
,
Ms. Sánchez
,
Mr. Correa
,
Ms. Salinas
,
Mr. Cárdenas
,
Ms. Titus
, and
Mr. Vasquez
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing Hispanic Restaurant Week and the contributions of Hispanic restaurant owners and employees to the restaurant industry.
Whereas Hispanic Restaurant Week is celebrated from September 22, 2024, through October 3, 2024, during the national celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month from September 15, 2024, through October 15, 2024;
Whereas, in 2020, the Bureau of Census estimated that 41,817 owners of accommodation and food service businesses were Hispanic;
Whereas the restaurant industry plays a significant role in the economy of the United States as the second-largest private sector employer in the United States;
Whereas 25.9 percent of workers in the restaurant industry are Hispanic;
Whereas, during the last decade, Hispanic entrepreneurs have started small businesses, including restaurants, at a higher rate than any other demographic;
Whereas, according to a 2023 Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative report published by the Stanford Graduate School of Business, during the last decade, Hispanic entrepreneurs have started small businesses, including restaurants, at a higher rate than any other demographic;
Whereas, of the nearly 5,000,000 Hispanic-owned businesses in the United States, the restaurant industry has the second-highest number of Hispanic owners;
Whereas 8 in 10 restaurant owners started their restaurant industry careers in entry-level positions;
Whereas 63 percent of adults in the United States have worked in the restaurant industry, making it
the Nation’s training ground
; and
Whereas the restaurant industry employs more minority managers than any other industry: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
celebrates Hispanic Restaurant Week; and
(2)
acknowledges—
(A)
the contributions of Hispanic owners and staff of the restaurant industry to the United States economy; and
(B)
the fact that the restaurant industry provides restaurant owners, chefs, dishwashers, and other staff the opportunity to work hard, persevere, support their families, and live the American Dream.
