118 HRES 1321 IH: Expressing support for the designation of June 28, 2024, as “Stonewall Day”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-06-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1321
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 25, 2024
Mr. Torres of New York
(for himself,
Mr. Pocan
,
Mr. Carson
,
Mr. Peters
,
Ms. Norton
,
Ms. Stevens
,
Mr. Grijalva
,
Ms. Bonamici
,
Ms. Wilson of Florida
,
Ms. Garcia of Texas
,
Mr. Evans
,
Ms. Chu
,
Mr. Gottheimer
,
Mr. Pappas
,
Mr. Robert Garcia of California
,
Mr. Davis of Illinois
, and
Ms. Williams of Georgia
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of June 28, 2024, as
Stonewall Day
.
Whereas, on June 28, 1969, a police raid at Stonewall Inn sparked a days-long community protest that marked the beginning of the long and ongoing fight for the equality, rights, and freedoms of individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and asexual (referred to in this resolution as
LGBTQIA+
);
Whereas the United States recognizes the impact of the Stonewall Inn riots (commonly referred to as the
Stonewall Rebellion
or
Stonewall Uprising
) and its significance in LGBTQIA+ history and the fight for equality;
Whereas, on June 28, 1970, the first Pride marches took place in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, and San Francisco to commemorate the 1-year anniversary of the Stonewall Uprising and demonstrate for equal rights;
Whereas Marsha P. Johnson, Sylvia Rivera, Storme DeLarverie, and Miss Major Griffin-Gracy were key leaders in the Stonewall Uprising and the LGBTQIA+ movement;
Whereas LGBTQIA+ people and their allies have worked together for nearly 60 years to make progress towards achieving full equality for all people in the United States, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or sex characteristics;
Whereas LGBTQIA+ individuals still face discriminatory policies, barriers to critical government services, and disregard for their equitable rights across the United States in the realms of affirming health care, employment, education, housing, immigration, and the justice system;
Whereas transgender people and LGBTQIA+ people of color are disproportionately burdened by such barriers, including by facing increased violence and discrimination;
Whereas millions of LGBTQIA+ people—especially LGBTQIA+ youth and transgender individuals—are still without any legal protection against discrimination as a result of existing gaps in Federal civil rights laws;
Whereas, on June 24, 2016, the Stonewall National Monument was established as the 412th unit of the National Park System, making it the first in the country dedicated to LGBTQIA+ equality;
Whereas, on June 28, 2024, the Stonewall National Monument Visitor Center will open at 51 Christopher Street, the location of the Stonewall Uprising, for the purpose of celebrating and honoring the legacy of the Stonewall Rebellion and the birth of the LGBTQIA+ civil rights movement;
Whereas Pride Live is a nonprofit organization committed to raising awareness and support for the LGBTIQA+ community and preserving and advancing equality;
Whereas Pride Live has worked with the LBGTQIA+ community to establish Stonewall Day and the Stonewall National Monument Visitor Center, which honor the legacy of the Stonewall Rebellion and celebrate the progress made by the LGBTQIA+ civil rights movement;
Whereas the Members of the 118th Congress support the rights and well-being of LGBTQIA+ individuals and recognize the need to dismantle State-sanctioned and government-funded discrimination against LGBTQIA+ people; and
Whereas June 28, 2024, would be an appropriate date to designate as
Stonewall Day
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the equal rights and protections of all people;
(2)
recognizes the significance of the Stonewall Uprising and its historic role in the equal rights movement for LGBTQIA+ people;
(3)
expresses support for the designation of
Stonewall Day
;
(4)
acknowledges that the National Park Service and its partners, Pride Live and Eastern National, will operate the Stonewall National Monument Visitor Center as a place where people can learn about and connect with the LGBTQIA+ community’s ongoing struggle for civil liberties; and
(5)
encourages the celebration of
Stonewall Day
to commemorate the significance of the grand opening of the Stonewall National Monument Visitor Center and the long and ongoing fight for equality.
