117 HRES 500 IH: Commemorating 7 years since the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida, on June 12, 2016.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 500
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 12, 2023
Mr. Soto
(for himself,
Ms. Wilson of Florida
,
Mrs. Foushee
,
Mr. Moskowitz
,
Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick
,
Ms. Wasserman Schultz
,
Mr. Lieu
,
Ms. Lois Frankel of Florida
,
Ms. Castor of Florida
, and
Mr. Frost
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Commemorating 7 years since the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida, on June 12, 2016.
Whereas June 12, 2023, marks 7 years since the Pulse nightclub massacre in Orlando, Florida;
Whereas this massacre took place at Pulse nightclub, a safe space for the Orlando community, especially members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning community;
Whereas Orlando and Orange County law enforcement, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and other emergency and health care professionals responded to the tragedy bravely, admirably, and in a coordinated manner, saving many lives;
Whereas, following the massacre, the city of Orlando, the State of Florida, and the United States came together and expressed overwhelming support for the victims and their families regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or political affiliation; and
Whereas, in his first term, President Biden signed over 25 executive actions in an effort to reduce gun violence nationwide, and Congress passed the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act (
Public Law 117–159
) on June 24, 2022, which President Biden signed on June 25, 2022: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes, remembers, and honors the memory of the victims killed in the Pulse nightclub massacre in Orlando, Florida, including Akyra Monet Murray, Alejandro Barrios Martínez, Amanda Alvear, Ángel L. Candelario-Padro, Anthony Luis Laureano Disla, Antonio Davon Brown, Brenda Lee Márquez McCool, Christopher Andrew Leinonen, Christopher Joseph Sanfeliz, Cory James Connell, Darryl Roman Burt II, Deonka Deidra Drayton, Eddie Jamoldroy Justice, Edward Sotomayor, Jr., Enrique Ríos, Eric Iván Ortiz-Rivera, Frank Hernández, Franky Jimmy Dejesus Velazquez, Geraldo A. Ortiz-Jiménez, Gilberto Ramon Silva Menéndez, Jason Benjamin Josaphat, Javier Jorge-Reyes, Jean C. Nieves Rodríguez, Jean Carlos Méndez Pérez, Jerald Arthur Wright, Joel Rayón Paniagua, Jonathan A. Camuy Vega, Juan Chavez-Martínez, Juan P. Rivera Velázquez, Juan Ramon Guerrero, Kimberly Morris, Leroy Valentín Fernández, Luis Daniel Conde, Luis Daniel Wilson-León, Luis Omar Ocasio-Capo, Luis S. Vielma, Martin Benítez Torres, Mercedez Marisol Flores, Miguel Ángel Honorato, Oscar A. Aracena-Montero, Paul Terrell Henry, Peter O. González-Cruz, Rodolfo Ayala-Ayala, Shane Evan Tomlinson, Simón Adrián Carrillo Fernández, Stanley Almodóvar III, Tevin Eugene Crosby, Xavier Emmanuel Serrano Rosado, and Yilmary Rodríguez Solivan;
(2)
offers heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathies for the families, loved ones, and friends of such victims on their day of remembrance;
(3)
expresses the continual support to those affected and marked by this tragedy many years later;
(4)
applauds the bravery and dedication exhibited by the hundreds of local, State, and Federal law enforcement officials, emergency medical responders, and others in the city of Orlando, Florida, who offered support and assistance;
(5)
stands together with all people of the United States, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or political affiliation, in the face of terror and hate; and
(6)
must continue to work toward gun safety and mental health legislation.
