118 HRES 1462 IH: Supporting the designation of the week of September 16 through September 20, 2024, as “Malnutrition Awareness Week”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1462
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 18, 2024
Ms. Bonamici
(for herself,
Mr. Bacon
,
Mr. McGovern
,
Mr. Lawler
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mr. Bishop of Georgia
,
Mr. Carson
, and
Ms. Tokuda
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
, and in addition to the Committees on
Agriculture
,
Ways and Means
, and
Education and the Workforce
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of the week of September 16 through September 20, 2024, as
Malnutrition Awareness Week
.
Whereas malnutrition is the condition that occurs when a person does not get enough protein, calories, or nutrients;
Whereas malnutrition is a significant problem in the United States and around the world, crossing all age, racial, class, gender, and geographic lines;
Whereas malnutrition can be driven by social determinants of health, including poverty or economic instability, access to affordable health care, and low health literacy;
Whereas there are inextricable and cyclical links between poverty and malnutrition;
Whereas the Department of Agriculture defines food insecurity as when a person or household does not have regular, reliable access to the foods needed for good health;
Whereas communities of color, across all age groups, are disproportionately likely to experience both food insecurity and malnutrition;
Whereas American Indian and Alaska Native households are at significantly greater risk for food insecurity than all households in the United States;
Whereas 1 in 18 Asian Americans and 1 in 5 Pacific Islanders experience food insecurity;
Whereas Black children are almost 3 times more likely to live in a food-insecure household than White children;
Whereas infants, older adults, people with chronic diseases, and other vulnerable populations are particularly at risk for malnutrition;
Whereas the American Academy of Pediatrics has found that failure to provide key nutrients during early childhood may result in lifelong deficits in brain function;
Whereas disease-associated malnutrition affects between 30 and 50 percent of patients admitted to hospitals, and the medical costs of hospitalized patients with malnutrition can be 300 percent more than the medical costs of properly nourished patients;
Whereas deaths from malnutrition have increased among adults 85 and older since 2013;
Whereas, according to the
National Blueprint: Achieving Quality Malnutrition Care for Older Adults, 2020 Update
, as many as half of older adults living in the United States are malnourished or at risk for malnutrition;
Whereas, according to recent Aging Network surveys, 76 percent of older adults receiving meals at senior centers and other congregate facilities report improved health outcomes, and 84 percent of older adults receiving home-delivered meals indicate the same;
Whereas disease-associated malnutrition in older adults alone costs the United States more than $51,300,000,000 each year; and
Whereas the American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition established
Malnutrition Awareness Week
to raise awareness and promote prevention of malnutrition across the lifespan: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
Malnutrition Awareness Week
;
(2)
recognizes registered dietitian nutritionists and other nutrition professionals, health care providers, school food service workers, those who provide home-delivered meals, social workers, advocates, caregivers, and other professionals and agencies for their efforts to advance awareness, treatment, and prevention of malnutrition;
(3)
recognizes the importance of existing Federal nutrition programs, like the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.
) nutrition programs and Federal child nutrition programs, for their role in combating malnutrition, and supports increased funding for these critical programs;
(4)
recognizes—
(A)
the importance of medical nutrition therapy under the Medicare Program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.
); and
(B)
the need for vulnerable populations to have adequate access to nutrition counseling;
(5)
recognizes the importance of the innovative research conducted by the National Institutes of Health on—
(A)
nutrition, dietary patterns, and the human gastrointestinal microbiome; and
(B)
how those factors influence the prevention or development of chronic disease throughout the lifespan;
(6)
supports access to malnutrition screening and assessment for all patients;
(7)
encourages the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to facilitate the implementation of newly approved malnutrition electronic clinical quality measures for adults aged 18 and older;
(8)
supports the ongoing work of the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health and its work to address malnutrition; and
(9)
acknowledges the importance of healthy food access for children, especially in childcare settings and schools, and the benefits of evidence-based nutrition standards.
