118 HRES 313 IH: Commending and congratulating the Quinnipiac University men’s hockey team for winning the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Men’s Hockey National Championship.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-04-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 313
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 20, 2023
Ms. DeLauro
(for herself,
Mr. Courtney
,
Mrs. Hayes
,
Mr. Larson of Connecticut
, and
Mr. Himes
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Commending and congratulating the Quinnipiac University men’s hockey team for winning the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Men’s Hockey National Championship.
Whereas, on Saturday, April 8, 2023, the Quinnipiac University men’s hockey team (referred to in this preamble as the
Quinnipiac Bobcats
) won the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association (referred to in this preamble as
NCAA
) Men’s Hockey Championship with a 3–2 win over the Minnesota Golden Gophers, at Amalie Arena in Tampa, Florida;
Whereas the 2023 national championship is the first national championship for the Quinnipiac Bobcats;
Whereas the Quinnipiac Bobcats have made the NCAA Championship tournament in 8 of the last 10 seasons;
Whereas Jacob Quillan was named the Most Outstanding Player of the 2023 NCAA Championship tournament, finishing the NCAA Championship tournament with 5 goals and setting a new Quinnipiac University record for most goals scored in a single tournament;
Whereas Rand Pecknold, the head coach of the Quinnipiac Bobcats, has led the team for 29 years and transformed the Quinnipiac Bobcats from a Division II program to a Division I powerhouse; and
Whereas the National Championship was played in front of 20,000 people in Tampa, Florida, and was the most watched
Frozen Four Final
game in more than 10 years: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends the Quinnipiac University men’s hockey team for winning the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Men’s Hockey Championship;
(2)
congratulates the fans, students, and faculty of Quinnipiac University; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Clerk of the House of Representatives transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the President of Quinnipiac University, Dr. Judy Olian; and
(B)
the head coach of the Quinnipiac University men’s hockey team, Rand Pecknold.
