118 HRES 1614 IH: Expressing support for the recognition of December 2024 as “National Impaired Driving Prevention Month”, and promoting efforts to help prevent tragic and preventable crashes, deaths, and injuries caused by impaired driving.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-12-11
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1614
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 11, 2024
Mr. Pappas
(for himself and
Mr. Mann
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the recognition of December 2024 as
National Impaired Driving Prevention Month
, and promoting efforts to help prevent tragic and preventable crashes, deaths, and injuries caused by impaired driving.
Whereas, in the United States, someone is killed or injured in a drunk driving crash every 39 minutes;
Whereas alcohol-impaired driving has increased 33 percent since 2019, killing more than 13,000 people each year and accounting for 32 percent of the Nation’s traffic deaths;
Whereas Congress took bold action to stop alcohol-impaired driving with the passage of the 21 minimum drinking age law in 1984 and the passage of the national .08 blood alcohol concentration standard in 2000, saving thousands of lives;
Whereas more work must be done to stop the preventable and tragic crime of impaired driving to make roads safer for drivers, passengers, and others sharing the road;
Whereas the average drunk driver has driven drunk 80 times before their first arrest, and studies have shown that the use of ignition interlocks reduce recidivism by up to 70 percent in first-time, repeat, and high-risk offenders;
Whereas H.R. 8213, the End DWI Act, would create a national ignition interlock standard by encouraging States to adopt mandatory first-time offender ignition interlock laws, helping to reduce recidivism and improve road safety by ensuring fewer drunk drivers are on the road;
Whereas the Department of Transportation works to educate the public in December through the Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over and If You Feel Different, You Drive Different media campaigns; and
Whereas many State and local law enforcement partner with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s annual Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over Campaign, enhancing roadway safety and combating impaired driving state: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
expresses support for the recognition of
Impaired Driving Prevention Month
to raise awareness about the dangers of impaired driving;
(2)
supports the efforts of the Department of Transportation, State Departments of Transportation, State and local governments, and State and local law enforcement to prevent and stop impaired driving thereby saving lives; and
(3)
urges people across the United States to take preventable steps against impaired driving such as driving sober and planning ahead for a safe ride home.
