118 HRES 1615 IH: Recognizing Interscholastic Athletic Administrators’ Day on December 14, 2024.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-12-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1615
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 12, 2024
Ms. Barragán
(for herself,
Mr. Veasey
,
Mr. Doggett
,
Mr. Johnson of Georgia
,
Mr. Carson
, and
Mr. Davis of North Carolina
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing Interscholastic Athletic Administrators’ Day on December 14, 2024.
Whereas, each December, the House of Representatives recognizes the positive contributions of interscholastic athletic administrators;
Whereas Congress recognizes the position of interscholastic athletic administrator as an important contributor to the education of our Nation’s students and helps foster the development of students physically, mentally, socially, and emotionally;
Whereas, for students, interscholastic athletic participation is an integral part of the educational experience and enhances the learning and maturation process;
Whereas the position of interscholastic athletic administrator involves serving as guardian over education-based athletics, which includes assuring the safety and well-being of all students;
Whereas interscholastic athletic administrators have stewardship over more than 8,000,000 students in secondary schools across the United States;
Whereas the existence of well-trained and supported athletic administrators is essential to the operation of our Nation’s education system;
Whereas school athletic administrators are often among the first at school each morning so that student-athletes have opportunities to use athletic facilities, stay later in the evening as various sports teams practice, and often work weekends during interscholastic competitions;
Whereas school athletic administrators are committed to developing and maintaining comprehensive education-based athletic programs that seek to achieve the highest development of all student-athletes;
Whereas the interscholastic athletic administrator field is experiencing high turnover rates, with as many as 33 percent of secondary school athletic administrators expected to resign or retire within the next couple of years;
Whereas the retention of the interscholastic athletic administrator workforce in the United States is essential in protecting school-based athletics as part of a robust educational experience; and
Whereas the athletic programs run by school athletic administrators have impacts that extend well beyond playing fields, athletic venues, and even schools: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the annual recognition of Interscholastic Athletic Administrators’ Day;
(2)
commends school athletic administrators for the commitment and leadership provided to student-athletes at the secondary school level; and
(3)
commends the National Interscholastic Athletic Administrators Association as the leading organization that prepares individuals who lead secondary school athletics throughout the United States, providing continuous learning, professional development, and resources to assist those within the profession.
