118 HRES 232 IH: Recognizing the importance of sleep health and expressing support for the designation of the week of March 12 through March 18, 2023, as “Sleep Awareness Week”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 232
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 14, 2023
Mr. Raskin
(for himself,
Ms. Dean of Pennsylvania
,
Ms. Brown
,
Mr. Bacon
,
Ms. Sewell
,
Mr. Grijalva
, and
Ms. Lofgren
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the importance of sleep health and expressing support for the designation of the week of March 12 through March 18, 2023, as
Sleep Awareness Week
.
Whereas sleep is essential for health, well-being, and safety;
Whereas advancing advocacy and promotion of evidence-based sleep health practices will improve the general health of the public;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advises that most adults need at least 7 hours of sleep per night;
Whereas the National Sleep Foundation’s 2023 Sleep in America Poll found that 35 percent of Americans say they sleep less than 7 hours per night on average;
Whereas sleep deprivation can lead to impaired memory, elevated stress levels, disrupted metabolism, and increased risk of injury and accidents;
Whereas, in the long-term, insufficient sleep can increase the risk of diabetes, stroke, heart disease, high blood pressure, depression, and other health conditions;
Whereas insomnia can be a symptom of depression and anxiety, and sleep problems can also exacerbate or contribute to the onset of mental health conditions;
Whereas numerous studies have found that Black Americans are less likely than their White counterparts to get adequate sleep, and that Black Americans may also be more likely to get lower quality sleep;
Whereas Congress established the National Center on Sleep Disorders Research in 1993 to foster the coordination of sleep and circadian research within the National Institutes of Health and other Federal agencies;
Whereas, for over two decades, the National Sleep Foundation has organized Sleep Awareness Week to promote the benefits of healthy sleep and its importance to overall health and well-being; and
Whereas numerous States and organizations across the Nation recognize and participate in Sleep Awareness Week: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the importance of sleep health as a way to increase overall health and well-being;
(2)
supports the designation of a
Sleep Awareness Week
;
(3)
supports the goals and efforts of Sleep Awareness Week;
(4)
encourages public health officials, health care providers, educators, and parents to do their part to promote adequate sleep;
(5)
encourages the people of the United States to prioritize their sleep health, practice good habits for sleep health, and discuss their sleep with their health care provider; and
(6)
recognizes the continued importance of policies to improve sleep health.
