118 HRES 1214 IH: Honoring the resiliency of America’s teachers during Teacher Appreciation Week of May 6, 2024, through May 13, 2024.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1214
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 8, 2024
Mr. Trone
(for himself,
Mr. Owens
,
Mr. Cleaver
,
Mrs. Chavez-DeRemer
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
, and
Mr. Morelle
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Honoring the resiliency of America’s teachers during Teacher Appreciation Week of May 6, 2024, through May 13, 2024.
Whereas teachers continue to work to overcome the learning deficits resulting from the COVID school closures;
Whereas teachers are embracing new paradigms and pedagogies for teaching that reach diverse learners;
Whereas teachers are overcoming the issues surrounding chronic absenteeism by creating welcoming school environments that partner with parents, families, and communities to support the learning of all children;
Whereas teachers in public, private, charter, and homeschools provide a multitude of choices for all children to become successful, thriving members of society;
Whereas teachers continue to embrace rigorous expectations of their students to ensure they are college, career, and vocation ready;
Whereas teachers constantly seek opportunities for professional development, such as National Board Certification, and more than half of all teachers possess a master’s degree;
Whereas 84 percent of teachers are staying in the profession, and in the same school;
Whereas the average teacher has 14.5 years of experience, and 46.5 percent have more than 15 years of experience;
Whereas teachers spend an average of 52 hours each week on all teaching and other school-related activities; and
Whereas it would be appropriate to honor teacher resilience: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the ability of teachers to overcome the most challenging of adverse events;
(2)
admires the efforts teachers make every day to enter the Nation’s classrooms and meet the unique needs of all children;
(3)
respects the hard work of teachers in constantly improving their practice in search of effective strategies for their classes;
(4)
applauds the devotion and commitment teachers demonstrate for their profession and their students; and
(5)
encourages all to demonstrate gratitude for the efforts of the teachers in our communities and for the unflinching resilience they demonstrate to benefit our country.
