118 HRES 1245 IH: Recognizing ГўВҖВңNational Public Works WeekГўВҖВқ.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1245
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 21, 2024
Ms. Craig
(for herself,
Ms. Titus
, and
Mr. Van Drew
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Recognizing
National Public Works Week
.
Whereas public works professionals and public works first responders work around the clock to ensure vital infrastructure, facilities, and services of communities deliver dependable, sustainable, and resilient public health, high quality of life, and well-being throughout the United States, and advance the quality of life for all;
Whereas such infrastructure, facilities, and services could not be provided without the dedicated efforts of public works professionals, who are engineers, managers, and employees of Federal, State, and local governments and the private sector, and who are responsible for rebuilding, improving, and protecting the NationГўВҖВҷs transportation, water supply, water treatment and solid waste systems, public buildings, and other structures and facilities essential for citizens of the United States;
Whereas public works professionals are first responders and are often first to arrive and last to leave a natural disaster area or incident scene;
Whereas it is in the public interest for citizens, civic leaders, and children of the United States to gain knowledge of, and to maintain a strong interest and understanding of, the importance of public works and public works programs in their respective communities; and
Whereas the week of May 19 through May 25, 2024, marks the 64th annual
National Public Works Week
and its theme,
Advancing Quality of Life for All
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of RepresentativesГўВҖВ”
(1)
supports
National Public Works Week
; and
(2)
encourages the people of the United States to pay tribute to public works professionals, public works first responders, and those serving in support roles within the public works industry, to recognize the substantial contributions they make in protecting the countryГўВҖВҷs health, safety, and quality of life.
