118 HRES 306 IH: Directing the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to conduct a study and issue a report about ways to increase the accessability of live broadcasts of floor proceedings of the House of Representatives to individuals without cable or satellite television, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-04-19
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 306
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 19, 2023
Ms. Brownley
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Directing the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to conduct a study and issue a report about ways to increase the accessability of live broadcasts of floor proceedings of the House of Representatives to individuals without cable or satellite television, and for other purposes.
1.
Study to identify options for accessible streaming of floor proceedings of the House of Representatives
(a)
Study
The Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives shall conduct a study on how to increase the accessibility of live broadcasts of floor proceedings of the House of Representatives to individuals without cable or satellite television service, that—
(1)
identifies ways an individual without cable or satellite television service can watch or stream a live broadcast of floor proceedings of the House of Representatives, including—
(A)
a list of covered providers and which streaming platforms (if any) that the live broadcast of floor proceedings of the House of Representatives offered by each covered provider is available through; and
(B)
a list of covered providers with a software application and which smart television platforms (if any) the software application is compatible with; and
(2)
identifies and assesses ways that a private sector entity, a public sector broadcasting service, or a partnership between public and private sector entities could create or expand broadcast services to allow more individuals to watch live floor proceedings of the House of Representatives, especially individuals who do not have cable or satellite television service and individuals who use a smart television.
(b)
Report
Not later than 6 months after the date of the adoption of this resolution, the Chief Administrative Officer shall submit to the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, and make available to the public, a report that details the findings of the study described in subsection (a).
(c)
Covered provider defined
In this section, the term
covered provider
means an entity that provides a live broadcast of floor proceedings of the House of Representatives to viewers.
