118 HRES 1519 IH: Expressing support for the designation of the week of September 23 through September 29, 2024, as “See Tracks? Think Train! Week” in the United States, and supporting the goals and ideals of reducing highway-rail grade crossing-related incidents, fatalities, and injuries.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1519
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 25, 2024
Ms. Wilson of Florida
(for herself,
Mr. Larsen of Washington
,
Mrs. Sykes
,
Mr. Deluzio
,
Mr. Carter of Louisiana
,
Mr. Carson
,
Mr. Johnson of Georgia
,
Mrs. Dingell
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
,
Ms. Titus
,
Mr. Mrvan
, and
Mr. Moulton
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of the week of September 23 through September 29, 2024, as
See Tracks? Think Train! Week
in the United States, and supporting the goals and ideals of reducing highway-rail grade crossing-related incidents, fatalities, and injuries.
Whereas the first Rail Safety Week was held from September 24 through September 30, 2017, by the national education safety nonprofit Operation Lifesaver, the Department of Transportation, and other organizations;
Whereas Rail Safety Week was launched to raise awareness about the need for increased education on how to be safe around highway-rail grade crossings and railroad tracks and to highlight efforts to further reduce incidents, injuries, and fatalities;
Whereas the rail industry strives to safeguard drivers and pedestrians at highway-rail grade crossings through continuous maintenance, public safety campaigns with organizations like Operation Lifesaver, utilizing government and community collaboration, and heavy investment in technology;
Whereas highway-rail grade crossing and trespassing incidents constituted approximately 97 percent of all rail-related fatalities during 2023;
Whereas, since 2005—
(1)
the number of public highway-rail grade crossings has decreased by 12 percent; and
(2)
the number of gates at such crossings has increased by 41 percent;
Whereas, in 2023, 59 percent of all highway-rail grade crossing incidents and 78 percent of all fatal highway-rail grade crossing incidents occurred at gated highway-rail grade crossings;
Whereas preliminary Federal statistics indicate that 2,192 highway-grade crossing incidents occurred in the United States in 2023, resulting in 247 deaths and another 764 individuals injured;
Whereas many incidents between trains and motor vehicles or pedestrians could have been prevented by increased education, engineering, and enforcement;
Whereas Operation Lifesaver, the foremost public information and education program on rail safety, which administers a public education program about grade-crossing safety and trespassing prevention, enjoys broad bipartisan support;
Whereas, during
See Tracks? Think Train! Week
, from September 23 through 29, and throughout the year, everyone is encouraged to take added caution as motorists or pedestrians approach tracks or trains;
Whereas the United States, Canada, and Mexico will concurrently observe See Tracks? Think Train! Week; and
Whereas this important observance should lead to greater safety awareness and a reduction in highway-rail grade crossing incidents and other railroad incidents: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
See Tracks? Think Train! Week
;
(2)
expresses strong support for—
(A)
the goals and ideals of See Tracks? Think Train! Week; and
(B)
efforts to reduce rail-related incidents, fatalities, and injuries at highway-rail grade crossings; and
(3)
encourages the people of the United States—
(A)
to participate in See Tracks? Think Train! Week events and activities; and
(B)
to educate themselves and others on how to be safe around railroad tracks and grade crossings.
