118 HRES 211 IH: Expressing support for the designation of March 8, 2023, as “National Emily Warner and Women Airline Pilots Day”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 211
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 8, 2023
Mr. Neguse
(for himself,
Mr. Crow
,
Ms. Pettersen
,
Ms. Caraveo
, and
Mr. Lamborn
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of March 8, 2023, as
National Emily Warner and Women Airline Pilots Day
.
Whereas Emily Howell Warner (referred to in this preamble as
Emily Warner
) of the State of Colorado is a celebrated female airline pilot with a proud legacy of promoting gender equity in all professions;
Whereas, 50 years ago, Emily Warner shattered the glass ceiling of the airline flight deck in the United States when she was hired by Frontier Airlines to be the first female airline pilot, opening the sky for other female airline pilots;
Whereas, in 1974, Emily Warner became the first female member of the Air Line Pilots Association, International;
Whereas, in 1976, Emily Warner became first female airline captain in the United States;
Whereas Emily Warner was a founding member of—
(1)
the Colorado Pilots Association;
(2)
the International Society of Women Airline Pilots; and
(3)
the Friends of the Granby/Grand County Airport;
Whereas the Frontier Airlines uniform worn by Emily Warner hangs in the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum;
Whereas, in 1994, Emily Warner was honored by Colorado Legislature Resolution 94–29, entitled
Honoring Captain Emily Warner of the Achievements in Aviation History
;
Whereas Emily Warner has been inducted into the Women in Aviation International Pioneer Hall of Fame, the National Women's Hall of Fame, the National Aviation Hall of Fame, the Irish-American Hall of Fame, the Colorado Women's Hall of Fame, and the Colorado Aviation Hall of Fame;
Whereas, in 2015, the Granby/Grand County Airport was renamed Emily Warner Field to honor the many contributions of Emily Warner to aviation; and
Whereas more than 16 percent of airline pilots in the United States are women: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives supports a
National Emily Warner and Women Airline Pilots Day
.
