118 HRES 663 IH: Condemning the atrocities that occurred in 1811, in Louisiana, in which enslaved people revolted for freedom and were brutalized, terrorized, and killed in response, and reaffirming the commitment of the House of Representatives in combating hatred, injustice, and White supremacy.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-08-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 663
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
August 25, 2023
Mr. Carter of Louisiana
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Condemning the atrocities that occurred in 1811, in Louisiana, in which enslaved people revolted for freedom and were brutalized, terrorized, and killed in response, and reaffirming the commitment of the House of Representatives in combating hatred, injustice, and White supremacy.
Whereas human beings were systematically taken from the continent of Africa and against their will forced onto ships through what is known today as the middle passage;
Whereas the horrific act of slavery impacted race relations in the United States and shaped the geographic, political, social, and economic conditions of Black people in ways that are still relevant today;
Whereas slave labor was critical to the functioning of many farms and plantations and therefore was critical to the development of the United States economy as a whole;
Whereas, in 1811, from January 8 to January 10, the largest slave uprising in the United States occurred in Louisiana;
Whereas the slave revolt was led by an enslaved person by the name of Charles Deslondes from the Destrehan Plantation;
Whereas the insurrection began at the plantation of Manuel Andry in St. John the Baptist Parish;
Whereas 500 enslaved people rebelled against their owners and walked downstream toward New Orleans recruiting additional enslaved people;
Whereas the enslaved people were stopped where what is now known as Jefferson Parish after a rough battle against the local militia and troops under the command of General Wade Hampton;
Whereas many enslaved people were killed during the altercation or deemed missing;
Whereas dozens of enslaved people were condemned to death, executed, and beheaded at the plantations to which they belonged;
Whereas the heads were planted on stakes at places where each of the enslaved people had undergone punishment;
Whereas in New Orleans, St. Charles parish, St. John the Baptist Parish and St. James Parish people were executed from the Jacques Deslondes Plantation; and
Whereas the treatment of enslaved people continued to be horrendous in nature, including exploitation, family separation, rape, torture, and degradation, among other cruelties: Now, therefore, be it—
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns the acts of chattel slavery against human lives and acknowledges the lasting impact that this incident has had on the Black community around the Nation and in Louisiana;
(2)
honors the memory of the brave souls who stood up against White supremacy and demanded freedom;
(3)
expresses support for the designation of a national day of remembrance for the victims of forced migration of Black people throughout United States history; and
(4)
reaffirms the commitment of the Federal Government to combat White supremacy and seek reconciliation for racial injustice.
