118 HRES 1233 IH: Supporting the goals and ideals of National Honor Our LGBT Elders Day.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1233
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 16, 2024
Ms. Bonamici
(for herself,
Ms. Davids of Kansas
,
Mr. Torres of New York
,
Mr. Grijalva
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Mr. Moskowitz
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mr. Takano
,
Ms. Lee of California
,
Mr. Carbajal
,
Mr. Gottheimer
,
Ms. Garcia of Texas
,
Mr. Peters
,
Mr. Pocan
,
Ms. Lee of Pennsylvania
,
Mr. Goldman of New York
, and
Ms. Jayapal
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Supporting the goals and ideals of National Honor Our LGBT Elders Day.
Whereas the National Resource Center of LGBTQ+ Aging reports that by 2030, studies project the population of LGBTQI+ people over 50 to reach 7,000,000;
Whereas LGBTQI+ older adults face unique challenges as they age and are 2 times more likely to be single and live alone, and 4 times less likely to have children;
Whereas the Movement Advancement Project and SAGE report that LGBTQI+ older people are more likely to face poverty and homelessness, and to have poor physical and mental health;
Whereas, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, homophobia, transphobia, and biphobia contribute to disparities in physical and mental health indicators such as depression, substance use, cancer, and experiences of abuse and violence;
Whereas the LGBTQI+ community is negatively affected in numerous ways by attacks from extremist politicians across the country, including a recent spike in antitrans legislation;
Whereas HIV disproportionately affects the LGBTQI+ community, and LGBTQI+ older people are no exception;
Whereas 30 years ago the idea that someone with HIV would live decades was unimaginable, and now people with HIV are living well into their golden years, with 39 percent of people living with HIV being aged 55 years or older, 60 percent being aged 50 or older (with that number expected to reach 70 percent by 2030), and 10 percent of all new HIV diagnoses in the United States in 2020 being in people aged 55 and older;
Whereas, despite all of these challenges, LGBTQI+ older people are living vibrant, full lives throughout every part of the country and around the world;
Whereas LGBTQI+ older people were the pioneers who stood up and pushed back at the Stonewall uprising, and the caregivers who stood by friends and loved ones through the height of the AIDS epidemic;
Whereas LGBTQI+ older people are models of resilience, celebrating their identities while persevering through adversity and helping to bring about incredible change for all LGBTQI+ people over just a few short decades; and
Whereas May 16, 2024, would be an appropriate day for the celebration of National Honor Our LGBT Elders Day: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of National Honor Our LGBT Elders Day;
(2)
encourages the Federal Government, States, localities, nonprofit organizations, schools, and community organizations to observe the day with appropriate programs and activities, with the goal of increasing public knowledge of the health disparities and unique challenges of LGBTQI+ elders;
(3)
encourages health care providers to offer culturally and clinically competent care to LGBTQI+ elders; and
(4)
encourages the Federal Government, States, international funding organizations, and United States bilateral and multilateral aid efforts to prioritize the health and human rights of LGBTQI+ elders.
