118 HRES 623 IH: Censuring Paul Gosar, Representative of the 9th Congressional District of Arizona.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-07-27
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 623
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 27, 2023
Ms. Wasserman Schultz
(for herself,
Mr. Schneider
,
Mr. Gottheimer
,
Mr. Landsman
,
Ms. Manning
,
Mr. Phillips
, and
Mr. Sherman
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ethics
RESOLUTION
Censuring Paul Gosar, Representative of the 9th Congressional District of Arizona.
Whereas, on July 23, 2023, Representative Paul Gosar used official House of Representatives resources to communicate with his constituents in the form of a weekly newsletter to promote a fringe website that—
(1)
refers to the Holocaust as
the Holohoax
throughout their site;
(2)
encourages those who visit the site to
stand up for Hitler
multiple times;
(3)
posts and promotes several antisemitic statements and conspiracy theories; and
(4)
promotes baseless and dangerous conspiracy theories and rhetoric ranging from Holocaust denial, defending Adolf Hitler, vaccine hesitancy, attacking the
deep state
including our Nation’s civil servants, and promoting antisemitism and racism;
Whereas, in the days leading up to Representative Gosar mentioning this site in his newsletter, there were no fewer than four posts on the site promoting extreme and antisemitic positions, including—
(1)
a post dated July 22, 2023, stated:
David Cole, a Jew, explores Auschwitz and debunks the claims that it was an industrial death camp—still on YouTube for now but as more countries outlaw questioning the
holocaust,
it is uploaded here in case it is removed to censor inconvenient evidence
;
(2)
a post dated July 21, 2023, stated:
Making Adolf Hitler into a Jewish-controlled agent is quite a brilliant plot by International Jewry to divert newcomers away from learning the true history and background of National Socialism (Slavery). Don’t be fooled! … Stand up for Hitler and National Socialism (Slavery)!!
;
(3)
a post dated July 20, 2023, links to and mentions a post from another known antisemitic site:
Untrue stories exist at each end of Jewish history’s three thousand years—fictional, fabricated and of immense magnitude … Towards the end of the 20th century as belief in the origin stories was fading away, the Holohoax morphed into a fearsome modern religion, in which belief is compulsory
; and
(4)
a post dated July 17, 2023, stated:
the Kalergi Plan consists of the genocide of white people through miscegenation and mass immigration of non-whites to Europe. … Hitler was aware of Kalergi’s plan and did everything in his power to prevent it. Like Gobineau, Hitler considered the Aryan race to be the noblest, the best armed for the struggle for existence, the most beautiful, the most energetic, and the one with the greatest amount of creative genius. What this race lost by mixing it was not compensated by what the others gained by ennoblement
;
Whereas Representative Gosar promoted the site as a part of his newsletter’s
Gosar in the News and Other Must Read Stories
on July 23, 2023, in addition to two other references on April 7, 2023, and August 7, 2022;
Whereas, in April 2023, the day before Holocaust Remembrance Day, Representative Gosar promoted an antisemitic website that featured posts denying the Holocaust, praising Adolf Hitler as
a man of valor,
and spreading common antisemitic tropes, in response to said website publishing an article titled
Congressman Gosar: Jewish warmongers Nuland & Blinken
Are Dangerous Fools Who Can Get Us All Killed,
but Representative Gosar removed
Jewish
from the title of the article prior to sharing it on social media, indicating a recognition that the title of the article was antisemitic;
Whereas Representative Gosar shared a tweet in October 2022 that read,
Pray for Kanye West. They will throw everything they have at him simply for speaking the truth
in response to Mr. West sharing Nazi imagery, including a swastika, threatening violence against Jewish people, and engaging in hateful stereotypes regarding Jewish people;
Whereas Representative Gosar has on several occasions publicly supported and appeared alongside self-described White nationalists, including Holocaust denier Nick Fuentes, at public conferences and events;
Whereas Representative Gosar has routinely sought out support, advice, and assistance from, and provided employment and the corresponding gains and benefits therein to, individuals and groups with alleged ties to antisemitic, neo-Nazi, and other extremist groups;
Whereas Representative Gosar frequently engaged in these activities using resources, including funds, technology, and personnel, provided by the House of Representatives at taxpayer expense;
Whereas Representative Gosar has demonstrated a clear pattern of engaging in antisemitism and extremism and has not demonstrated any remorse or indicated any willingness to change the course of his actions;
Whereas Representative Gosar’s activities promote hate when antisemitic incidents are at an all-time high in the United States, with the Anti-Defamation League’s Audit of Antisemitic Incidents finding that the year 2022 had the highest number on record since beginning to track in 1979;
Whereas the right to free speech, which all Representatives are committed to defending, does not provide a justification for a Representative to use his or her platform to contribute to the spread of hate;
Whereas the leadership of the Republican Party has failed to hold Representative Gosar to account while claiming to support the Jewish-American community and counter antisemitism;
Whereas Representative Gosar’s actions tarnish the honor of the House of Representatives and must not be tolerated; and
Whereas the House of Representatives has an obligation to confront and condemn antisemitism in all its manifestations: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
Representative Paul Gosar be censured;
(2)
Representative Paul Gosar present himself in the well of the House of Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; and
(3)
Representative Paul Gosar be censured with the public reading of this resolution by the Speaker.
