118 HRES 152 IH: Supporting the goals and ideals of “move over” laws.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 152
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 24, 2023
Mr. McGovern
(for himself,
Ms. Titus
,
Ms. Leger Fernandez
, and
Ms. Kaptur
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Supporting the goals and ideals of
move over
laws.
Whereas the House of Representatives recognizes law enforcement, fire and rescue, emergency medical services, tow truck operators, and transportation workers as traffic incident management responders (as such term is defined by the Traffic Incident Management Handbook of the Federal Highway Administration);
Whereas, due to the increasingly high rate of drivers engaging in risky behaviors on our roadways, including distracted driving, impaired driving, and speeding, many traffic incident management responders lose their lives while performing their duties each year;
Whereas, nationally in 2022, 50 traffic incident management responders were killed due to roadside collisions;
Whereas every State has a
move over
law, which has correlated directly to a safer environment along our Nation’s roadsides for traffic incident management responders and stranded citizens;
Whereas
move over
laws generally require motorists to move at least 1 lane over when there is an emergency or rescue activity taking place on the shoulder or side of the roadway, or, if unable to do so safely, to slow down and pass the scene with caution;
Whereas a Government Accountability Office report (GAO–21–166) on Emergency Responder Safety noted that State officials cite raising public awareness as the most prevalent challenge to
move over
laws; and
Whereas providing traffic incident management responders an enhanced opportunity to inform the motoring public about these laws is critical to the public safety: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of
move over
laws;
(2)
urges relevant Federal and State agencies, as well as nongovernmental organizations involved in traffic incident management response, to spread awareness and promote the existence of, and adherence to, State
move over
laws; and
(3)
urges relevant Federal and State agencies, as well as nongovernmental organizations involved in traffic incident management response, to educate the public further on the dangers and potential loss of life if the provisions and requirements of State
move over
laws are not faithfully observed.
