118 HRES 422 IH: Recognizing ГўВҖВңNational Public Works WeekГўВҖВқ.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 422
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 18, 2023
Ms. Craig
(for herself,
Ms. Titus
, and
Mr. Van Drew
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Recognizing
National Public Works Week
.
Whereas public works professionals work around the clock to ensure communitiesГўВҖВҷ vital infrastructure, facilities, and services deliver dependable, sustainable, and resilient public health, high quality of life, and well-being throughout the United States of America;
Whereas such infrastructure, facilities, and services could not be provided without the dedicated efforts of public works professionals, who are engineers, managers, and employees of Federal, State, and local government and the private sector, and who are responsible for rebuilding, improving, and protecting our NationГўВҖВҷs transportation, water supply, water treatment and solid waste systems, public buildings, and other structures and facilities essential for our citizens;
Whereas public works emergency responders are first to arrive and last to leave a natural disaster area of incident scene;
Whereas it is in the public interest for citizens, civic leaders, and children of the United States to gain knowledge of, and to maintain a strong interest and understanding of, the importance of public works and public works programs in their respective communities; and
Whereas the week of May 21 through May 27, 2023, marks the 63rd annual
National Public Works Week
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives supports
National Public Works Week
and encourages the people of the United States to pay tribute to our public works professionals, engineers, managers, and employees and to recognize the substantial contributions they make to protecting our national health, safety, and quality of life.
