118 HRES 1038 IH: Recognizing and honoring Burnsville, Minnesota, law enforcement and first responders for their heroic actions.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-02-29
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1038
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 29, 2024
Ms. Craig
(for herself,
Mr. Finstad
,
Mr. Phillips
,
Ms. McCollum
,
Mr. Emmer
,
Mrs. Fischbach
, and
Mr. Stauber
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Recognizing and honoring Burnsville, Minnesota, law enforcement and first responders for their heroic actions.
Whereas Burnsville Police Officers Paul Elmstrand and Matthew Ruge and Firefighter/Paramedic Adam Finseth died in the line of duty on February 18, 2024, while responding to a domestic situation in Burnsville, Minnesota;
Whereas Officer Paul Elmstrand dedicated over 6 years of service to the Burnsville Police Department, joined the department in 2017 as a Community Service Officer and was promoted to Officer in 2019, and served as part of the department’s mobile command staff, peer team, honor guard, and field training unit;
Whereas Officer Matthew Ruge dedicated over 3 years of service to the Burnsville Police Department, joining the department in 2020, where he was a physical evidence officer and a member of the crisis negotiation team;
Whereas Firefighter/Paramedic Adam Finseth dedicated 5 years of service to the Burnsville Fire Department, served as a water rescue trainer and on Burnsville’s Health and Wellness Committee, and was an Army veteran serving during Operation Iraqi Freedom;
Whereas Officers Paul Elmstrand and Matthew Ruge and Firefighter/Paramedic Adam Finseth will be remembered as heroes who protected their community and loved their families and friends;
Whereas Police Sergeant Adam Medlicott was injured and hospitalized while responding to the call; and
Whereas Sergeant Adam Medlicott has served with the Burnsville Police Department since 2014 in various roles, including as a patrol officer, drug recognition specialist, and field training officer, and was promoted to sergeant in 2022: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
expresses deep condolences to the families and colleagues of Burnsville, Minnesota, Police Officers Paul Elmstrand and Matthew Ruge and Firefighter/Paramedic Adam Finseth, who made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty and whose sacrifice will not be forgotten;
(2)
honors the bravery of Police Sergeant Adam Medlicott;
(3)
recognizes all of the countless selfless and heroic actions carried about by local law enforcement and first responders;
(4)
expresses strong support for law enforcement and first responders in Minnesota and across the United States who protect and serve their communities; and
(5)
acknowledges the importance of honoring and remembering fallen law enforcement and first responders killed in the line of duty.
