118 HRES 531 IH: Directing the Committee on Ethics of the House of Representatives to immediately notify the full House of Representatives with respect to the names of the individuals who guaranteed Representative Santos’ bail bond in relation to the indictment brought against Representative Santos in May 2023 by the Department of Justice, and submit to the House of Representatives an interim report on the investigation into Representative Santos not later than July 17, 2023, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 531
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 21, 2023
Mr. Landsman
(for himself and
Mr. Goldman of New York
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ethics
RESOLUTION
Directing the Committee on Ethics of the House of Representatives to immediately notify the full House of Representatives with respect to the names of the individuals who guaranteed Representative Santos’ bail bond in relation to the indictment brought against Representative Santos in May 2023 by the Department of Justice, and submit to the House of Representatives an interim report on the investigation into Representative Santos not later than July 17, 2023, and for other purposes.
Whereas Representative George Santos was indicted by the Department of Justice on May 9, 2023, for wire fraud, money laundering, theft of public funds, and making false statements to the House of Representatives;
Whereas Representative Santos was released on, among other things, a $500,000 bond guaranteed by three individuals;
Whereas the Committee on Ethics of the House has requested that Representative Santos provide it with the identities of the individuals who guaranteed the bond;
Whereas, on February 9, 2023, House Resolution 114, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress (H. Res. 114), was introduced in the House calling for the expulsion of Representative Santos;
Whereas, on May 17, 2023, the House voted to refer H. Res. 114 to the Committee on Ethics; and
Whereas the Speaker of the House publicly stated that he would ask the Committee on Ethics to expedite its investigation and report back to the House within 60 days: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
the Committee on Ethics of the House shall report to the full House of Representatives not later than 2 days after the adoption of this resolution on whether Representative Santos has provided the Committee with the names of the individuals who guaranteed his bond;
(2)
if so, the Committee on Ethics shall report to the full House the identities of such individuals; and
(3)
the Committee on Ethics shall report to the House with interim findings related to its investigation with respect to H. Res. 114 and this resolution not later than July 17, 2023.
