118 HRES 1625 IH: Supporting the recognition of “World Basketball Day”, celebrated globally on December 21 each year, and honoring the contributions of basketball to global unity, international sports diplomacy, and the transformative impact of the sport on communities across the world.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-12-19
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1625
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 19, 2024
Ms. Williams of Georgia
(for herself,
Mr. Moore of Utah
,
Mr. Neal
,
Mr. Ciscomani
,
Mr. Bishop of Georgia
,
Mr. Carson
,
Mr. Carter of Louisiana
,
Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick
,
Mr. Cleaver
,
Mr. Espaillat
,
Ms. Kamlager-Dove
,
Mr. Stanton
,
Mr. Thompson of Mississippi
,
Ms. Titus
,
Mr. Veasey
, and
Ms. Scholten
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Supporting the recognition of
World Basketball Day
, celebrated globally on December 21 each year, and honoring the contributions of basketball to global unity, international sports diplomacy, and the transformative impact of the sport on communities across the world.
Whereas basketball is a sport enjoyed by millions of people across the globe, uniting individuals from diverse cultures and backgrounds through a shared love of athleticism and teamwork;
Whereas the game of basketball is a key element of North American sporting heritage, having been invented in Springfield, Massachusetts, in 1891, by James Naismith, a Canadian-American educator, physician, and chaplain;
Whereas, on August 25, 2023, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution proclaiming December 21 annually as World Basketball Day;
Whereas World Basketball Day provides an opportunity to reflect on the role basketball plays in fostering sportsmanship and mutual respect, transcending cultural differences;
Whereas the United States has been a central hub in the development and global spread of basketball, which has enriched both domestic and international communities and influenced countless lives through programs, professional leagues, and community engagement initiatives;
Whereas more than 585,000,000 people worldwide play basketball annually;
Whereas a record-tying 125 international players from a record-tying 43 countries across 6 continents were on National Basketball Association (NBA) opening-night rosters for the 2024–2025 season, showcasing the growth and success of basketball across the world;
Whereas three international players, Joel Embiid, Nikola Jokic, and Giannis Antetokounmpo, have combined to win the last 6 NBA Most Valuable Player awards;
Whereas, since 1978, the NBA has played more than 215 games in more than 20 countries outside the United States and Canada;
Whereas the Basketball Hall of Fame, located in Springfield, Massachusetts, has been a beacon for recognizing the sport’s greatest contributors, and the work of the basketball community continues to inspire young people to excel both on and off the court;
Whereas basketball and basketball players have served as a forum and ambassadors for cross-cultural understanding and humanitarian cooperation; and
Whereas Dikembe Mutombo, former NBA player and global humanitarian, has served as an exemplary figure in using basketball as a platform to promote peace, education, and health care, particularly through his work in his native Democratic Republic of the Congo: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the recognition of World Basketball Day, celebrating the values of teamwork, sportsmanship, and unity fostered through basketball;
(2)
commends the efforts of athletes, organizations, and individuals who have contributed to the advancement of basketball as a vehicle for positive change in communities around the world;
(3)
honors the contributions of Dikembe Mutombo, and others like him, who have used their platform to further humanitarian causes and foster peace through the universal language of basketball; and
(4)
encourages the continued growth of basketball programs, at home and abroad, that create pathways for the next generation of leaders, drive upward opportunities, and build upstanding citizens.
