118 HRES 1050 IH: Supporting the designation of March 2024 as National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-03-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1050
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 1, 2024
Mr. Payne
(for himself,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Ms. Sewell
,
Ms. Clarke of New York
,
Mr. Davis of Illinois
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
,
Ms. McClellan
,
Mr. Tonko
,
Ms. Wilson of Florida
,
Ms. Jackson Lee
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Mr. Bacon
,
Ms. Adams
,
Mr. Ivey
, and
Mr. Bishop of Georgia
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of March 2024 as National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.
Whereas colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death among men and women combined in the United States;
Whereas, in 2024, approximately 153,020 Americans will be diagnosed with colorectal cancer and approximately 53,010 Americans will die from it;
Whereas colorectal cancer is one of the most highly preventable forms of cancer because screening tests can find polyps that can be removed before becoming cancerous;
Whereas screening tests can detect colorectal cancer early, when treatment works best;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that if every individual aged 50 or older had regular screening tests, as many as 60 percent of deaths from colorectal cancer could be prevented;
Whereas the 5-year survival rate for patients with localized colorectal cancer is 90 percent, but only 39 percent of all diagnoses occur at this stage;
Whereas colorectal cancer screenings can effectively reduce colorectal cancer incidence and mortality, yet, 1 in 3 adults over 50 years of age are not up to date with recommended colorectal cancer screening;
Whereas 1 in 23 men and 1 in 26 women will be diagnosed with colorectal cancer in their lifetime;
Whereas, by 2030, colorectal cancer is expected to be the number one cancer killer for those ages 20–49;
Whereas public awareness and education campaigns on colorectal cancer prevention, screening, and symptoms are held during the month of March each year; and
Whereas educational efforts can help provide information to the public of methods of prevention and screening, as well as about symptoms for early detection: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month; and
(2)
encourages the people of the United States to observe the month with appropriate awareness and educational activities.
