118 HRES 403 IH: Commending United States Capitol Police Officer Caroline Edwards for her commitment, determination, and heroic service in defense of American democracy during the January 6, 2021, assault on the United States Capitol.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 403
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 15, 2023
Mr. David Scott of Georgia
(for himself,
Mr. Bishop of Georgia
,
Mr. Payne
,
Mr. Carson
,
Ms. Norton
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
, and
Mrs. McBath
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Commending United States Capitol Police Officer Caroline Edwards for her commitment, determination, and heroic service in defense of American democracy during the January 6, 2021, assault on the United States Capitol.
Whereas, on January 6, 2021, Officer Caroline Edwards, a 4-year veteran of the United States Capitol Police, refused to abandon her post protecting the United States even as an angry mob bullied, insulted, and violently pushed its way past security barricades;
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards was violently assaulted with bike racks and left unconscious by members of the Proud Boys and other far-right domestic terrorist groups;
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards is a native of Atlanta, Georgia, and a proud graduate of Georgia public schools;
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards attended the University of Georgia and graduated cum laude as she obtained a bachelor’s degree;
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards, the proud granddaughter of a United States Marine who was wounded during the Korean war at the Battle of Chosin Reservoir, also chose to commit her life to public service and the protection of America’s institutions;
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards joined the United States Capitol Police force in 2017;
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards showed exceptional professionalism as a member of the United States Capitol Police First Responder Unit;
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards showed exemplary composure and clarity during her June 10, 2022, opening testimony and retelling of events before the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol;
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards was awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal by President Joe Biden on January 6, 2023, which recognizes
citizens of the United States of America who have performed exemplary deeds of service for their country, or their fellow citizens
;
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards was awarded the 2023 Dean’s Medal for Leadership Excellence from the University of Georgia Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication in honor of her selfless defense of the heart of American democracy; and
Whereas Officer Caroline Edwards continues to embody the best in American policing and serves as a model in security, crime prevention, Member and staff protection, specialty response, and homeland security: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends Officer Caroline Edwards for the sacrifice she made to protect Members, staff, and employees at the United States Capitol; and
(2)
conveys the thanks and appreciation of a grateful Nation to United States Capitol Police Officer Caroline Edwards for her selfless and heroic service in defense of American democracy in responding to the assault on the United States Capitol by domestic terrorists on January 6, 2021.
