118 HRES 592 IH: Censuring Representative George Santos.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-07-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 592
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 17, 2023
Mr. Torres of New York
(for himself,
Mr. Robert Garcia of California
,
Mr. Goldman of New York
, and
Mr. Lieu
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ethics
RESOLUTION
Censuring Representative George Santos.
Whereas Representative George Santos repeatedly lied to voters in his district, donors, and the American public during his campaign to be elected to Congress;
Whereas a number of Republicans in Congress have called on George Santos to resign due to his hurtful lies and mistruths that have broken the trust of his constituents;
Whereas George Santos lied about being a member of the Jewish faith during his Congressional campaign and deliberately misrepresented that his grandparents survived the Holocaust;
Whereas George Santos falsely claimed that his mother died during the terrorist attacks on September 11th, 2001;
Whereas George Santos deliberately misrepresented his educational background by falsely claiming he received a bachelor’s degree from Baruch College and a master’s degree from New York University;
Whereas George Santos falsely claimed he obtained a volleyball scholarship to his college;
Whereas George Santos deliberately misrepresented his employment background, inaccurately claiming he worked at Goldman Sachs and Citigroup;
Whereas George Santos falsely claimed that he founded an animal rescue charity that saved more than 2,500 dogs and cats;
Whereas George Santos deliberately misrepresented that 4 of his employees were killed in the Pulse nightclub shooting;
Whereas George Santos falsely claimed that he helped produce the Broadway musical
Spider-Man: Turn Off The Dark
;
Whereas George Santos deliberately misrepresented that he had a family-owned real estate portfolio of 13 properties;
Whereas George Santos admitted to committing crimes in Brazil by using a fake name and stolen checkbook to purchase items; and
Whereas George Santos failed to file his congressional financial disclosure reports as required by law: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
Representative George Santos be censured;
(2)
Representative George Santos forthwith present himself in the well of the House of Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; and
(3)
Representative George Santos be censured with the public reading of this resolution by the Speaker.
