118 HRES 284 IH: Commending and congratulating the University of Connecticut Men’s Basketball Team for winning the 2023 NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-04-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 284
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 10, 2023
Mr. Courtney
(for himself,
Ms. DeLauro
,
Mr. Larson of Connecticut
,
Mr. Himes
, and
Mrs. Hayes
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Commending and congratulating the University of Connecticut Men’s Basketball Team for winning the 2023 NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship.
Whereas, on Monday, April 3, 2023, the University of Connecticut Men’s Basketball Team (referred to in this preamble as the
UConn Huskies
) won the 2023 NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship with a 76–59 win over the San Diego State Aztecs at NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas;
Whereas this is the UConn Huskies fifth national championship, continuing the team’s undefeated streak in national championship games;
Whereas all five titles were earned since 1999, a feat no other college team has surpassed;
Whereas Adama Sanogo was named the Most Outstanding Player of the tournament, averaging 19.7 points per game with four double-doubles; and
Whereas the UConn Huskies won every NCAA tournament game by 13 points or more, becoming only the fifth team in history to do so: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends the University of Connecticut Men’s Basketball Team for winning the 2023 NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship;
(2)
congratulates the fans, students, and faculty of the University of Connecticut; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Clerk of the House of Representatives transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the President of the University of Connecticut, Radenka Maric; and
(B)
the Head Coach of the University of Connecticut Men’s Basketball Team, Dan Hurley.
