Executive Order  —Economic Sanctions Against Iran
 
 

PROHIBITING CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH IRAN

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 203 of   ( ), Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and Section 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ), in order to take steps additional to those set forth in Executive Order No. 12170 of  , to deal with the threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of   referred to in that  , and in furtherance of the objectives of   Resolution 461 ( ) adopted on  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-101. The following are prohibited effective immediately, notwithstanding any contracts entered into or licenses granted before the date of this Order:

(a) The sale, supply or other transfer, by any person subject to the jurisdiction of  , of any items, commodities or products, except food, medicine and supplies intended strictly for medical purposes, and donations of clothing intended to be used to relieve human suffering, from  , or from any foreign country, whether or not originating in  , either to or destined for  , an   governmental entity in  , any other person or body in   or any other person or body for the purposes of any enterprise carried on in  .

(b) The shipment by vessel, aircraft, railway or other land transport of   registration or owned by or under charter to any person subject to the jurisdiction of   or the carriage (whether or not in bond) by land transport facilities across   of any of the items, commodities and products covered by paragraph (a) of this section which are consigned to or destined for  , an   governmental entity or any person or body in  , or to any enterprise carried on in  .

(c) The shipment from   of any of the items, products and commodities covered by paragraph (a) of this section on vessels or aircraft registered in  .

(d) The following acts, when committed by any person subject to the jurisdiction of   in connection with any transaction involving  , an   governmental entity, an enterprise controlled by   or an   governmental entity, or any person in  :

(i) Making available any new credits or loans;

(ii) Making available any new deposit facilities or allowing substantial increases in non-dollar deposits which exist as of the date of this  ;

(iii) Allowing more favorable terms of payment than are customarily used in international commercial transactions; or

(iv) Failing to act in a businesslike manner in exercising any rights when payments due on existing credits or loans are not made in a timely manner.

(e) The engaging by any person subject to the jurisdiction of   in any service contract in support of an industrial project in  , except any such contract entered into prior to the date of this   or concerned with medical care.

(f) The engaging by any person subject to the jurisdiction of   in any transaction which evades or avoids, or has the purpose or effect of evading or avoiding, any of the prohibitions set forth in this section.

1-102. The prohibitions in section   above shall not apply to transactions by any person subject to the jurisdiction of   which is a non-banking association, corporation, or other organization organized and doing business under the laws of any foreign country.

1-103. The Secretary of the   is delegated, and authorized to exercise, all functions vested in the President by   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) to carry out the purposes of this  . The Secretary may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the Federal government.

1-104. The Secretary of the   shall ensure that actions taken pursuant to this   and Executive Order No.   are accounted for as required by Section 401 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ).

1.-105. This   is effective immediately. In accord with Section 401 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ) and Section 204 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.  ), it shall be immediately transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:18 p.m.,  ]
