Executive Order  — 
 
 

ESTABLISHING A NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR WOMEN

By virtue of my authority as President of  , and in order to promote equality for women in the cultural, social, economic and political life of this Nation, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of  . There is established   (hereafter the  ).

 . 2. Membership. The President shall appoint not more than thirty individuals to serve on the   and shall designate one member to chair the  .

 . 3. Responsibilities of the  . (a) The   shall advise the President on a regular basis of initiatives needed to promote full equality for   women.

(b) The   shall assist in reviewing the applicability of such initiatives, including recommendations of the    , to particular programs and policies.

(c) The   shall promote the national observance of   ( ).

(d) The   shall gather and disseminate information relating to its responsibilities.

(e) The   shall consult regularly with   established in Section 6.

 . 4.  . (a) The   may establish, within the limits of available funds, such working groups as may be necessary to fulfill its tasks. The membership of such groups may include persons not members of the  .

(b) The   shall establish such procedural regulations as are necessary to carry out its responsibilities.

(c) The   shall conclude its work by  , and shall make a final report to the President.

 . 5. Assistance and Cooperation. The   may request any agency of   of the government to furnish it with such information, advice, funds and services as may be useful for the fulfillment of the  's functions under this  . Such agencies are authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to honor the  's requests.

 . 6.  . The head of each agency within the   shall designate persons responsible for reviewing the applicability of initiatives designed to promote full equality for   women, including recommendations of the    , to the agency's programs and policies. Persons so designated shall constitute  , which shall consult regularly with the  . The President shall designate a person to chair the Task Force.

 . 7.  . Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I) which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 8. Revocations. Executive  .  , as amended, and Executive Order No.  , as amended, are revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:59 a.m.,  ]
