Executive Order  —Sanctions Against Iran
 
 

FURTHER PROHIBITIONS ON TRANSACTIONS WITH IRAN

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 203 of   ( ), Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, Sections 1732 and   of Title 22 of the United States Code, and Section 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ), in order to take steps additional to those set forth in Executive Order No. 12170 of  , and Executive Order No. 12205 of  , to deal with the threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of   referred to in those Orders, and the added unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of   created by subsequent events in   and neighboring countries, including the   invasion of  , with respect to which I hereby declare a national emergency, and to carry out the policy of   to deny the use of its resources to aid, encourage or give sanctuary to those persons involved in directing, supporting or participating in acts of international terrorism, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-101. Paragraph 1-101 (d) of Executive Order No.   is hereby amended by the addition of a new subparagraph (v) as follows:

(v) Make any payment, transfer of credit, or other transfer of funds or other property or interests therein, except for purposes of family remittances.

1-102. The following transactions are prohibited, notwithstanding any contracts entered into or licenses granted before the date of this Order:

(a) Effective immediately, the direct or indirect import from   into   of   goods or services, other than materials imported for news publication or news broadcast dissemination.

(b) Effective immediately, any transactions with a foreign person or foreign entity by any citizen or permanent resident of   relating to that person's travel to   after the date of this  .

(c) Effective   from the date of this  , the payment by or on behalf of any citizen or permanent resident of   who is within   of any expenses for transactions within  .

The prohibitions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply to a person who is also a citizen of   and those prohibitions and the prohibitions in section 1-101 shall not apply to a journalist or other person who is regularly employed by a news gathering or transmitting organization and who travels to   or is within   for the purpose of gathering or transmitting news, making news or documentary films, or similar activities.

1-103. The Secretary of the   is hereby directed, effective   from the date of this  , to revoke existing licenses for transactions by persons subject to the jurisdiction of   with  ,  , and   previously issued pursuant to regulations under Executive Order No.   or Executive Order No.  .

1-104. The Secretary of the   is delegated, and authorized to exercise, all functions vested in the President by   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) to carry out the purposes of this  . The Secretary may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the Federal government.

1-105. The Secretary of the   shall ensure that actions taken by him pursuant to the above provisions of this  , Executive Order No.   and Executive Order No.   are accounted for as required by Section 401 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ).

1-106. The Secretary of   is delegated, and authorized to exercise in furtherance of the purposes of this  , the powers vested in the President by Section 2001 of the Revised Statutes (22 U.S.C.  ), Section 1 of the Act of July 3, 1926 (22 U.S.C. 211a), and Section 215 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.  ), with respect to:

(a) the restriction of the use of   passports for travel to, in or through  ; and

(b) the regulation of departures from and entry into   in connection with travel to   by citizens and permanent residents of  .

1-107. Except as otherwise indicated herein, this   is effective immediately. In accord with Section 401 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ) and Section 204 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.  ), it shall be immediately transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:51 a.m.,  ]
