Executive Order  —Presidential Advisory Committees
 
 

TERMINATION OF CERTAIN PRESIDENTIAL ADVISORY COMMITTEES

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , in order to terminate certain advisory committees in accordance with the provisions of   (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) The Citizens' Advisory Council on   is terminated.

(b) Executive Order No. 11126 of  , as amended by Executive Order No. 11221 of  , is further amended as follows:

(1) Subsection (5) of Section 102 is revoked.

(2) Section 103, in order to delete a reference to the  , is amended to read as follows:

"  the   shall transmit a report to the President concerning the status of women."

(3) Part II is revoked.

(4) The second sentence of Section 301, in order to delete references to the  , is amended to read as follows:

"To the extent practical and to the extent permitted by law (1) all Executive agencies shall cooperate with the   and furnish it such information and assistance as may be necessary for the performance of its functions, and (2) the Secretary of   shall furnish staff, office space, office facilities and supplies, and other necessary assistance, facilities, and services for the  ."

 . 2. (a) The Citizens' Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality is terminated.

(b) Part II of Executive Order No. 11472 of  , as amended by paragraphs (7) and (8) of Section 4 of Executive Order No.  , is revoked.

 . 3. (a)   is terminated.

(b) Section 2 of Executive Order No.   of  , is revoked.

 . 4. (a)   is terminated.

(b) Executive Order No.   of  , is amended as follows:

(1) The second sentence of subsection (b) (1) of Section 2 is amended by deleting "(including   established in section 5 of this order) ".

(2) Section 5 is revoked.

 . 5. (a) The President's   is terminated.

(b) Executive Order No.   of  , is revoked.

 . 6. Subsections (a), (g), (i), and (j) of Section 1 of Executive Order No.  , which extended the above advisory committees until  , is superseded.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:31 a.m.,  ]

Note: The Executive order was announced by   on  . It was not issued in the form of a   press release.
