Executive Order 12075— 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to provide for interagency coordination of the implementation of Federal urban and regional policy, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of the  .

1-101. There is established  .

1-102. The   shall be composed of the heads of the following agencies, or a designated representative, and such others as the President may designate:

(a) Department of the  

(b)  

(c) Department of the Interior

(d)  (e)  

(f)  

(g)  , and  

(h)  

(i)  (j)  

(k) Environmental Protection Agency

(1)  

(m)  

(n) Small Business Administration

(o) ACTION

1-103. The President shall designate the Chairperson of the  .

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall work with Executive agencies to involve all sectors of the  , including  , county and local governments, regional bodies, the private sector, neighborhood groups, and volunteer and civic associations, in a partnership to conserve and strengthen  's communities.

1-202. The   shall facilitate cooperation and coordination of urban and regional policy implementation among and between   agencies.

1-203. The   shall assist Executive agencies in coordinating timely responses to  , county and local government and community development strategies.

1-204. The   shall identify and seek to solve interagency and intergovernmental problems which impede the effective functioning of the Federal system.

1-205. The functions of the   shall neither substitute for nor replace   of the President clearance, review and decisionmaking procedures.

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. Executive agencies shall cooperate with and assist the   in performing its functions.

1-302. The   shall be responsible for providing the   with such administrative services or support as may be necessary or appropriate.

1-303. The   may establish working groups or subcommittees of the  . The Chairman may invite representatives of nonmember agencies to participate from time to time in the functions of the  .

1-304. The   shall report to the President on the performance of the  's functions.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:52 a.m.,  ]
