Executive Order  — 
 
 

CONFORMING THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY AND CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT

AND  

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 292 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of   for   (90 Stat.  ; 50 U.S.C. 403 note), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Director of  , hereafter referred to as the Director, shall maintain   and  , hereafter referred to as the Fund, in accordance with the following principles:

(a) None of the moneys mentioned in   of   for  , as amended (78 Stat.  , as amended; 50 U.S.C. 403 note), shall be assignable, either in law or equity, except under the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, or subject to execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process, except as otherwise may be provided by Federal laws.

(b) An individual entitled to an annuity from the Fund may make allotments or assignments of amounts of such annuity for such purposes as the Director in his sole discretion considers appropriate.

(c) No payment shall be made from the Fund unless an application for benefits based on the service of the participant is received by the Director before the one hundred and fifteenth anniversary of the participant's birth.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (c) of this Section, after the death of a participant or annuitant, no benefit based on the service of such person shall be paid from the Fund unless an application therefor is received by the Director within   after the death or other event which gives rise to title to benefit.

(e)   deducted from salaries pursuant to Section 273 of   of   for   (78 Stat.  ; 50 U.S.C. 403 note) shall be deposited in the   of   to the credit of the Fund.

 . 2. The provisions of this   are effective as follows:

(a) The provisions of  ) and 1 (b) are effective as of  .

(b) The provisions of Sections l(c) and 1 (d) are effective as of  .

(c) The provisions of Section 1 (e) are effective as of   and shall apply to annuitants serving in appointed positions on and after that date.

 . 3. The Director of   is authorized to prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:52 a.m.,  ,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released on  .
