Executive Order  — 
 
 

AMENDING THE GENERALIZED SYSTEM OF

PREFERENCES

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended by   of   (93 Stat. 315), and Section 604 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ), and as President of  , in order to adapt the preferential treatment under   of preferences ( ) for articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries which are currently eligible for such treatment, to the numerous changes of the law and of     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) which have resulted from the enactment of   of   (93 Stat. 144 et seq.) and   to Carry Out the Geneva (1979) Protocol to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and for Other Purposes; and to make conforming modifications to the  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. General   (c) (ii) of the  , is modified by substituting therefor the new General  ) (ii) as provided in   I, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is further amended as provided in Annex II, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is further amended as provided in  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 4. General   (c) (iii) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite these articles, is modified as provided in  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 5. General Headnote 3(c)(i) of the   is modified by deleting from the list of independent designated beneficiary countries "  Empire" and "  Arab Republic", and by substituting therefor, in alphabetical order, "Central African Republic," and "  ( )", respectively.

 . 6. The amendments and modifications made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on and after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on and after  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:52 a.m.,  ]

Note: The annexes are printed in   of  .
