Executive Order  —President's Commission on  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to modify and continue, in accord with the provisions of   (5 U.S.C. App. I), a balanced forum to review the state of the  's coal industry, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment.

1-101. There is established   on  .

1-102. The membership of the   shall be composed of five persons appointed by the President from citizens in private life. One shall represent the interests of labor, one shall represent management and three shall represent the general public. The labor and management representatives shall be chosen from among candidates recommended by   and  , but shall not be members of these organizations. The President shall designate one of the members representing the general public to chair the  .

1-103. The President of the   and the Speaker of   may designate three members of their respective   to attend and participate in all meetings of the   ex officio.

1-104. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   or their designees may also attend and participate in all meetings of the   ex officio.

1-2. Functions.

1-201. The   shall conduct a comprehensive review of the state of the coal industry in   with particular emphasis on matters pertaining to productivity, capital investment, and the general economic health of the industry; collective bargaining, grievance procedures, and such other aspects of labormanagement relations as the   deems appropriate; health, safety and living conditions in the  's coal fields; the development and application of new technologies to the industry; the impact on the coal industry of Federal regulations; and such other matters as the   deems appropriate.

1-202. The five members appointed by the President shall prepare and transmit a final report of their findings and recommendations to the President, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  .

1-203. To assist the   in the exercise of its functions, the   may sponsor a   conference on the future of the coal industry.

1-3. Administration.

1-301. The Chairman of the   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of a staff and such other persons as may be necessary to carry out its functions, subject to the applicable provisions of  , including Section 7(d)(2) thereof. Supergrade staff positions may not include more than one position at the GS-18 level, one position at the GS-17 level, and three positions at the GS-16 level, and shall be subject to the applicable provisions of law, including any applicable provisions of   and 5108 of Title 5 of the United States Code. The   may obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 3109 of Title 5 of the United States Code, to the extent that funds are available therefor.

1-302. To the extent authorized by law and requested by the Chairman of the   or by  ,   shall provide the   with necessary administrative services, facilities and support on reimbursable basis.

1-303.   and   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such information, advice, facilities, support, funds and services, including staff, as may be necessary for the effective performance of the  's functions.

1-304. The   may request any Executive agency to furnish such information or assistance it deems necessary to carry out its functions. Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish such information and assistance to the   upon request of the Chairman.

1-305. Each member of the   may receive compensation at the rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for GS-15 of the General Schedule for   such member is engaged in the work of the  . Each member may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ). Individuals designated to attend meetings under Section 1-103 of this   may also receive such travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, which are permitted by law.

1-306. The functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I) which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by  .

1-4.  .

1-401. The final report required by Section 1-202 of this   shall be transmitted not   from the date of this Order.

1-402. The   shall terminate   from the date of this Order.

1-403. Executive  . 12062 of  , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:32 a.m.,  ]
