Executive Order  —President's   
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , in accordance with the provisions of   (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall be composed of not more than twenty persons who shall be appointed by the President.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson from among the members.

 . 2. (a) The   shall conduct such public hearings, inquiries, and studies as may be necessary to identify the mental health needs of the Nation. In particular, the   shall seek to identify:

(1) How the mentally ill, emotionally disturbed, and mentally retarded are being served, to what extent they are being underserved, and who is affected by such underservice.

(2) The projected needs for dealing with emotional stress during  .

(3) The various ways the President, the  , and   may most efficiently support the treatment of the underserved mentally ill, emotionally disturbed, and mentally retarded.

(4) Various methods for coordinating a unified approach to all mental health and people-helping services.

(5)The types of research   should support to further the prevention and treatment of mental illness and mental retardation.

(6) What role the various educational systems, volunteer agencies and other people-helping institutions can perform to minimize emotional disturbance in our country.

(7) As nearly as possible, what programs will cost, when the money should be spent, and how the financing should be divided among  , State and local governments, and the private sector.

(b) The   shall submit a report to the President recommending how the mental health needs of the   can be met and identifying the relative priority of those needs.

 . 3. The   shall make a preliminary report with recommendations to the President by  . A final report with recommendations and priorities shall be submitted to the President by  .

 . 4. (a) The Chairperson of the Commission is authorized to establish such advisory committees as may be deemed appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  .

(b) The  , and any advisory committees established pursuant to this  , shall hold such hearings and public meetings as the   may deem necessary and as required by law.

 . 5. The   is authorized to request, at the direction of the  , from any executive department or agency, any information deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this  . Each department or agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish information and otherwise cooperate with the   in performing its functions under this  .

 . 6.   shall provide administrative services and facilities to the   on a reimbursable basis.

 . 7. (a) Each member of the   and its advisory committees and staff who is not otherwise employed in the Government, may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for   he or she is engaged upon the work of the   at a rate not to exceed the maximum   rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for CS-18 of the General  , and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ) for persons in the government service employed intermittently.

(b) The   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such other persons as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions, and is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 3109 of Title 5 of the United States Code, to the extent funds are available therefor.

(c) All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the   shall be paid from the appropriation for "Unanticipated Needs," in  ,  , or from such other funds as may be available.

(d) Within the limitations permitted by law the   has the authority to seek and receive other than government funds to carry out its work.

 . 8. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the   or its advisory committees, shall be performed by the Secretary of  , and   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 9. The   shall terminate   after the transmittal of its final report to the President.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 1:32 p.m.,  ]
