Executive Order 12194— 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to coordinate the development of Federal radiation protection policy, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1—I. Establishment.

1-101. There is established  .

1-102. The   shall be composed of the heads of the following agencies or their representatives and such others as the President may designate:

(a)  .

(b)  .

(c)  .

(d)  .

(e)  , and  .

(f)  .

(g)  .

(h)  .

(i)  .

(j)  .

(k)  .

(l)  .

(m)   is invited to participate.

1-103. The head of each agency represented on the   may designate an official of the equivalent rank of Assistant Secretary or higher level to serve as the agency's representative.

1-104. The Administrator of  , or any agency representative designated by him, shall chair the  . 1-2. Functions.

1-201. The   shall coordinate the formulation and implementation of Federal policy relating to radiation protection. In carrying out this function, the   shall:

(a) advise on the formulation of broad radiation protection policy;

(b) monitor implementation of Federal radiation protection policies by Federal agencies;

(c) assist in the resolution of conflicts in jurisdiction among Federal agencies and recommend corrective legislation if needed;

(d) ensure effective liaison with the States and the  ;

(e) serve as a forum for public participation and comment; and

(f) perform such other functions as the President may direct.

1-202. The   shall keep the Director of  , the Director of  , and   informed of the activities of the  .

1-203. The   shall prepare an   report of its activities and transmit the report to the President and the heads of the agencies represented on    .

1-3. General Provisions.

1-301.  , to the extent permitted by law, shall furnish administrative support, funds, staff, and other assistance to the   as necessary to carry out its functions.

1-302. Federal agencies, to the extent permitted by law, shall provide to the   that information and assistance which it requests in order to carry out its functions.

1-303. The   shall transmit its final   report and terminate   after the date of this  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:14 p.m.,  ]
