Executive Order  — -Iran Agreement on Release of the American Hostages
 
 

PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON HOSTAGE

COMPENSATION

By the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , in accordance with  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment.

1-101. There is established   on  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall be composed of not more than nine members who shall be appointed by the President.

1-102. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members.

1-2. Functions.

1-201. The   shall study and analyze, and make recommendations to the President on, the question whether   should provide financial compensation to   nationals who have been held in captivity outside  , either (1) by or with the approval of a foreign government, or (2) by reason of their status as employees of   or as dependents of such employees.

1-202. The   shall submit a report to the President   after the date of this Order. The report shall contain the  's recommendations as to whether legislation to deal with the foregoing compensation issue is appropriate and, if so, as to what such legislation should provide. The report shall specifically contain the  's recommendations concerning the compensation of   nationals held hostage in   on and after  .

1-203. In analyzing the foregoing issues the   shall consider all factors which it may consider relevant, including the prior practice with respect to governmental compensation, both by   and by foreign governments, of persons held in captivity abroad.

1-204. In the performance of its functions the   shall specifically address the following issues:

(a) whether any legislation authorizing compensation should set forth specific legislative standards, or whether the standards by which to award compensation should be administratively developed;

(b) whether any standards developed either legislatively or administratively should be applied uniformly to civilian and military government employees, dependents of such employees, and private citizens, or whether separate criteria should be developed for these or other categories;

(c) whether an existing administrative body should determine amounts of compensation, or whether a new body should be established for this purpose; and

(d) whether compensation should be paid for injuries suffered by members of families of persons who have been held in captivity.

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. In performing its functions the   shall conduct such studies, reviews, and inquiries as may be necessary. In addition to conducting open meetings in accordance with  , the   shall conduct public hearings to identify critical issues and possible solutions related to compensation.

1-302. The   is authorized to request from any Executive agency such information that may be deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this  . Each Executive agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish such information to the   in the performance of its functions under this  .

1-303. Each member of the   who is not otherwise employed in   may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for   he or she is engaged in the work of the   at a rate not to exceed the maximum   rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for GS-18 of the General  , and may also receive transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-304. All necessary administrative staff services, support, facilities, and expenses of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, be furnished by  .

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

1-402. The   shall terminate   after submitting its report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:27 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   on  .
