Executive Order  —Environmental Effects Abroad of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the

 , and as President of  , in order to further environmental objectives consistent with the foreign policy and national security policy of  , it is ordered as follows: SECTION 1.

1-1. Purpose and  . The purpose of this Executive Order is to enable responsible officials of Federal agencies having ultimate responsibility for authorizing and approving actions encompassed by this   to be informed of pertinent environmental considerations and to take such considerations into account, with other pertinent considerations of national policy, in making decisions regarding such actions. While based on independent authority, this   furthers the purpose of   and   and Sanctuaries Act and the Deepwater Port Act consistent with the foreign policy and national security policy of  , and represents the   government's exclusive and complete determination of the procedural and other actions to be taken by Federal agencies to further the purpose of  , with respect to the environment outside  , its territories and possessions.

 . 2.

2-1. Agency Procedures. Every Federal agency taking major   actions encompassed hereby and not exempted here from having significant effects on the environment outside the geographical borders of   and its territories and possessions shall within   after the effective date of this   have in effect procedures to implement this  . Agencies shall consult with   and   concerning such procedures prior to placing them in effect.

2-2. Information Exchange. To assist in effectuating the foregoing purpose,   and   in collaboration with other interested Federal agencies and other nations shall conduct a program for exchange on a continuing basis of information concerning the environment. The objectives of this program shall be to provide information for use by decision makers, to heighten awareness of and interest in environmental concerns and, as appropriate, to facilitate environmental cooperation with foreign nations.

2 3. Actions Included. Agencies in their procedures under Section 2-1 shall establish procedures by which their officers having ultimate responsibility for authorizing and approving actions in one of the following categories encompassed by this  , take into consideration in making decisions concerning such actions, a document described in Section 2-4(a):

(a) major Federal actions significantly affecting the environment of the global commons outside the jurisdiction of any nation (e.g., the oceans or Antarctica);

(b) major Federal actions significantly affecting the environment of a foreign nation not participating with   and not otherwise involved in the action;

(c) major Federal actions significantly affecting the environment of a foreign nation which provide to that nation:

(1) a product, or physical project producing a principal product or an emission or effluent, which is prohibited or strictly regulated by Federal law in   because its toxic effects on the environment create a serious public health risk; or

(2) a physical project which in   is prohibited or strictly regulated by Federal law to protect the environment against radioactive substances.

(d) major Federal actions outside  , its territories and possessions which significantly affect natural or ecological resources of global importance designated for protection under this subsection by the President, or, in the case of such a resource protected by international agreement binding on  , by the Secretary of  . Recommendations to the President under this subsection shall be accompanied by the views of   and the Secretary of  .

2-4. Applicable Procedures. (a) There are the following types of documents to be used in connection with actions described in Section 2-3:

(i) environmental impact statements (including generic, program and specific statements);

(ii) bilateral or multilateral environmental studies, relevant or related to the proposed action, by   and one or more foreign nations, or by an international body or organization in which   is a member or participant; or

(iii) concise reviews of the environmental issues involved, including environmental assessments, summary environmental analyses or other appropriate documents.

(b) Agencies shall in their procedures provide for preparation of documents described in Section 2-4(a), with respect to actions described in Section 2-3, as follows:

(i) for effects described in Section 2-3 (a), an environmental impact statement described in Section 2-4(a) (i);

(ii) for effects described in Section 2 3 (b), a document described in Section 2-4(a) (ii) or (iii), as determined by the agency;

(iii) for effects described in Section 2-3 (c), a document described in Section 2-4(a) (ii) or (iii), as determined by the agency;

(iv) for effects described in Section 2-3(d), a document described in Section 2-4(a) (i), (ii) or (iii), as determined by the agency.

Such procedures may provide that an agency need not prepare a new document when a document described in Section 2-4 (a) already exists.

(c) Nothing in this   shall serve to invalidate any existing regulations of any agency which have been adopted pursuant to court order or pursuant to judicial settlement of any case or to prevent any agency from providing in its procedures for measures in addition to those provided for herein to further the purpose of   and other environmental laws, including   and Sanctuaries Act and the Deepwater Port Act, consistent with the foreign and national security policies of  .

(d) Except as provided in Section 2-5 (b), agencies taking action, encompassed by this   shall, as soon as feasible, inform other Federal agencies with relevant expertise of the availability of environmental documents prepared under this  .

Agencies in their procedures under Section 2-1 shall make appropriate provision for determining when an affected nation shall be informed in accordance with Section 3-2 of this Order of the availability of environmental documents prepared pursuant to those procedures.

In order to avoid duplication of resources, agencies in their procedures shall provide for appropriate utilization of the resources of other Federal agencies With relevant environmental jurisdiction or expertise.

2-5. Exemptions and  . (a) Notwithstanding Section 2-3, the following actions are exempt from this Order:

(i) actions not having a significant effect on the environment outside   as determined by the agency; (ii) actions taken by the President; (iii) actions taken by or pursuant to the direction of the President or   officer when the national security or interest is involved or when the action occurs in the course of an armed conflict;

(iv) intelligence activities and arms transfers;

(v) export licenses or permits or export approvals, and actions relating to nuclear activities except actions providing to a foreign nation a nuclear production or utilization facility as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended, or a nuclear waste management facility;

(vi) votes and other actions in international conferences and organizations;

(vii) disaster and emergency relief action.

(b) Agency procedures under Section 2-1 implementing Section 2-4 may provide for appropriate modifications in the contents, timing and availability of documents to other affected Federal agencies and affected nations, where necessary to:

(i) enable the agency to decide and act promptly as and when required;

(ii) avoid adverse impacts on foreign relations or infringement in fact or appearance of other nations' sovereign responsibilities; or

(iii) ensure appropriate reflection of: (1) diplomatic factors;

(2) international commercial, competitive and export promotion factors;

(3) needs for governmental or commercial confidentiality;

(4) national security considerations;

(5) difficulties of obtaining information and agency ability to analyze meaningfully environmental effects of a proposed action; and

(6) the degree to which the agency is involved in or able to affect a decision to be made.

(c) Agency procedures under Section 2-1 may provide for categorical exclusions and for such exemptions in addition to those specified in subsection (a) of this Section as may be necessary to meet emergency circumstances, situations involving exceptional foreign policy and national security sensitivities and other such special circumstances. In utilizing such additional exemptions agencies shall, as soon as feasible, consult with   and  .

(d) The provisions of Section 2-5 do not apply to actions described in Section 2-3 (a) unless permitted by law.  . 3.

3-1. Rights of Action. This   is solely for the purpose of establishing internal procedures for Federal agencies to consider the significant effects of their actions on the environment outside  , its territories and possessions, and nothing in this   shall be construed to create a cause of action.

3-2. Foreign Relations.   shall coordinate all communications by agencies with foreign governments concerning environmental agreements and other arrangements in implementation of this  .

3-3.  . Where more than one Federal agency is involved in an action or program, a lead agency, as determined by the agencies involved, shall have responsibility for implementation of this  .

3-4. Certain Terms. For purposes of this  , "environment" means the natural and physical environment and excludes social, economic and other environments; and an action significantly affects the environment if it does significant harm to the environment even though on balance the agency believes the action to be beneficial to the environment. The term "export approvals" in Section 2-5(a) (v) does not mean or include direct loans to finance exports.

3-5. Multiple Impacts. If a major   action having effects on the environment of   or the global commons requires preparation of an environmental impact statement, and if the action also has effects on the environment of a foreign nation, an environmental impact statement need not be prepared with respect to the effects on the environment of the foreign nation.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:38 p.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released on  .
