Executive Order  —Export of Banned or Significantly Restricted Substances
 
 

ON FEDERAL POLICY REGARDING THE EXPORT OF BANNED OR SIGNIFICANTLY RESTRICTED SUBSTANCES

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to further the foreign policy interests of   and to provide for effective and responsible implementation of the Export Administration Act of   (50 U.S.C. App.   et. seq.) and other statutes insofar as they relate to the export of banned or significantly restricted substances, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Scope of the Order

1-101. For the purposes of this  , the term "banned or significantly restricted substance" means:

(a) a food or class of food which

(1) is adulterated, as defined by rules or orders issued under  . 402 (a) or (c) (21 U.S.C. 342(a) or (c)), or

(2) is in violation of emergency permit controls issued under  . 404 (21 U.S.C. 344) of  , and Cosmetic Act;

(b) a drug which is

(1) adulterated, as defined by rules or orders issued under  . 501 (a), (b), (c), or (d) (21 U.S.C. 351(a), (b), (c), or (d)),

(2) misbranded, as defined by rules or orders issued under  . 502(j) (21 U.S.C. 352(j) ) or

(3) a new drug or new animal drug for which an approval is not in effect under  . 505 (21 U.S.C. 355) or  . 512 (21 U.S.C. 360), respectively, of  , and Cosmetic Act;

(c) an antibiotic drug which has not been certified under  . 507 (21 U.S.C. 357) of  , and Cosmetic Act;

(d) a drug containing insulin which has not been certified under  . 506 (21 U.S.C. 356) of  , and Cosmetic Act;

(e) a device which

(1) is adulterated, as defined by rules or orders issued under  . 501(a) (21 u.s.c. 351 (a)),

(2) is misbranded, as defined by rules or orders issued under  . 502(j) (21 U.S.C. 352(j) ),

(3) does not conform with a performance standard issued under  . 514 (21 U.S.C. 360d),

(4) has not received premarket approval under  . 515 (21 U.S.C. 360e), or

(5) is banned under  . 516 (21 U.S.C. 360f) of  , and Cosmetic Act;

(f) a cosmetic which is adulterated, as defined by rules or orders issued under  . 601 (21 U.S.C. 361) of  , and Cosmetic Act;

(g) a food additive or color additive which is deemed unsafe within the meaning of  . 409 (21 U.S.C. 348) or  . 706 (21 U.S.C. 376), respectively, of  , and Cosmetic Act;

(h) a biological product which has been propagated or manufactured and prepared at an establishment which does not hold a license as required by  . 351 (42 U.S.C. 262) of  ;

(i) an electronic product which does not comply with a performance standard issued under  . 358 (42 U.S.C. 263f) of  ;

(j) a consumer product which

(1) does not comply with a consumer product safety standard adopted under Secs. 7 and 9 (15 U.S.C.   and 2058) other than one relating solely to labeling,

(2) has been declared to be a banned hazardous product under Secs. 13 and 9 (15 U.S.C. 2057 and 2058),

(3) presents a substantial product hazard under  . 15 (15 U.S.C.  ), or

(4) is an imminently hazardous consumer product under  . 12 (15 U.S.C. 2061) of the Consumer Product Safety Act;

(k) a fabric, related material, or product which does not comply with a flammability standard (other than one relating to labeling) adopted under  . 4:(15 U.S.C.  ) of the Flammable Fabrics Act;

(1) a product which is a banned hazardous substance (including a children's article) under Secs. 2 and 3 (15 U.S.C. 1261 and 1262) of  ;

(m) (1) a pesticide which, on the basis of potential risks to human health or safety or to the environment,

(A) has been denied registration for all or most significant uses under  . $ (c) (6) (7 U.S.C. 136a(c) (6)),

(B) has been classified for restricted use under  . 3(d)(1)(c) (7 U.S.C. 136a(d) (1) (c)),

(c) has had its registration cancelled or suspended for all or most significant uses under  . 6 (7 U.S.C.  ),

(D) has been proceeded against and seized under  .  ) (7 U.S.C.  ), or

(E) has not had its registration cancelled, but requires an acknowledgement statement under  . 17(a) (2) (7 U.S.C. 1360(a) (2)) of  , Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, or

(2) a pesticide chemical for which a tolerance has been denied or repealed under  . 408 (21 U.S.C. 346(a) ) of  , and Cosmetic Act; and

(n) a chemical substance or mixture

(1) which is subject to an order or injunction issued under  . 5(f)(3) (15 U.S.C. 2604(f) (3)),

(2) which is subject to a requirement issued under  . 6 (a) ( 1 ), 6 (a) (2), 6 (a) (5), or 6(a) (7) (15 U.S.C. 2605(a) (1), 2605(a)(2), 2605(a)(5), or   (a) (7)) or

(3) for which a civil action has been brought and relief granted under  . 7 (15 U.S.C.  ) of the Toxic Substances Control Act.

1-102. Each agency that is responsible for the administration of a statute or statutory provision referenced in   shall compile and, within   after the issuance of this  , shall publish in   a list of those substances within its jurisdiction that are banned or significantly restricted substances as defined by Subsection 1-101. Each agency shall revise the list of banned or significantly restricted substances within its jurisdiction as necessary to reflect new regulatory actions by the agency.

1-2.  

1-201. Each agency that is required by statute to notify, or to be apprised of notifications to, foreign countries regarding exports of banned or significantly restricted substances to those countries shall adhere, to the extent not inconsistent with applicable law, to the following procedures:

(a) Each agency shall promptly provide to   such information regarding an export of banned or significantly restricted substances to a foreign government as is required by statute or agency regulation to be forwarded to the foreign government, either by the agency or by another party required to apprise the agency of its notification, and by the notification forms and procedures to be established by   pursuant to Subsection 1-201(b). As soon as feasible after the receipt of the required information from an agency,   shall transmit the information to the government of the foreign country to which the banned or significantly restricted substance is to be exported.

(b)   shall consult with affected agencies regarding the format and content appropriate for required notifications to foreign governments and shall establish, within   after the issuance of this  , notification forms and procedures. At a minimum, the following information shall be transmitted to foreign governments regarding banned or significantly restricted substances to be exported to them from  :

(1) the name of the substance to be exported;

(2) a concise summary of the agency's regulatory actions regarding that substance, including the statutory authority for such actions and the timetable for any further actions that are planned; and,

(3) a concise summary of the potential risks to human health or safety or to the environment that are the grounds for the agency's actions.

In addition, to the extent deemed appropriate by the agency with jurisdiction over the banned or significantly restricted substance to be exported, copies of additional documents may be forwarded to a foreign government, either at

the same time as or subsequent to the required notification, to assist the foreign government in its assessment of the nature and extent of the risks associated with the substance.

(c) With respect to each required notification regarding an export of a banned or significantly restricted substance, each agency shall identify for   the persons or offices within that agency to be contacted in the event that the foreign government receiving the notification wishes to obtain through   additional information regarding the risks of, or regulatory actions taken with respect to, the banned or significantly restricted substance that is the subject of the notification.

(d) When it is required by statute or agency regulation that a foreign government acknowledge that it has received notification of an export of banned or significantly restricted substances, express approval of the export, or make any other type of response to notification, the notification shall advise the foreign government that its response should be directed to   for transmittal to the agency.

1-202. The procedures established by Subsection 1-201 shall not preclude an agency from contacting a foreign government directly regarding the export of banned or significantly restricted substances to that country, providing that such contacts are supplementary to, rather than substitutes for, adherence to the procedures established by Subsection 1-201.

1-203.   embassy shall maintain on file, for a period of   after transmission, copies of the notifications transmitted through   to the government of the foreign country in which the embassy is located, as well as lists of   agency contact points sent to   in connection with those notifications.

1-3.  

1-301. It is the intent of this   to rely primarily on the notification procedures,   report, and participation in international efforts provided for in Sections 1-2, 1-4, and 1-5, respectively, in implementing the  , and to resort to the imposition of export controls only in a very few instances. Specifically, export controls should be limited to extremely hazardous substances, as determined by the agency primarily responsible for regulating a substance on the basis of the record compiled in connection with regulatory action taken by that agency concerning that substance—

(a) which represent a substantial threat to human health or safety or to the environment,

(b) the export of which would cause clear and significant harm to the foreign policy interests of  , and

(c) for which export licenses would be granted only in exceptional cases.

Export controls shall not be applied to substances specified in   (b) (3), 1-101 (e)(4), and 1-101 (m)(1) (E) of this Order. Nor shall export controls be applied to "medicine or medical supplies," which are excluded from such controls by Section 6(f) of the Export Administration Act of   (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(f)). For the purposes of this   the phrase "medicine or medical supplies" shall be construed so as to permit consideration for inclusion on   of drugs and devices within the categories specified in   (b-e) and representing a substantial threat to human health or safety or to the environment. Wherever practicable, export controls should be no more restrictive than the controls applicable to domestic commerce and use.

1-302. Within   after the issuance of this  ,   shall develop for interagency review proposed regulations to govern its consideration of applications for licenses to export banned or significantly restricted substances included on  . Within   after the issuance of this  ,   shall publish the proposed regulations in   for public comment.

1-303. In accord with its statutory role under the Export Administration Act, and consistent with the policy and standards enunciated in  ,   shall identify, subject to the concurrence of  , candidates for inclusion on  . If     are unable to agree on the inclusion on   of a particular substance, the matter shall be referred to the President.

1-304. In order to assist   in the development of its advice to   under subsection 1-303, there is hereby established an interagency task force, to be chaired by  . The task force shall consist of representatives of the following agencies:

(a)  .

(b)  .

(c) Environmental Protection Agency.

(d)  ,  .

(e)  .

(f) Office of  .

 , as chair of the task force, may invite representatives of non-member agencies to participate from time to time in the functions of the task force. The task force shall provide technical advice to   as to which substances should be considered candidates for inclusion on  . The task force shall endeavor to reach consensus on its advice, consistent with the policy and standards enunciated in  .

1-305. To the extent possible, within the limits of available information and consistent with the policy and standards enunciated in  , the task force shall consider, with respect to each banned or significantly restricted substance that is proposed for inclusion on   by a member of the task force:

(a) the type, extent, and severity of the potential detrimental effects of the substance;

(b) the likelihood of the effects;

(c) the duration of the effects;

(d) the ability of foreign countries to avoid or mitigate the effects;

(e) the availability of the substance from sources other than  ;

(f) the availability of other substances or methods that would serve the same purposes as the substance; and,

(g) the importance of the beneficial uses of the substances.

1-306. Before deciding whether to grant a validated license for the export of any banned or significantly restricted substance that is included on  ,   shall consult with  , the agency with domestic regulatory authority, and any other agency deemed relevant by  . Such consultation by   is necessary within the meaning of Section 10(a)(3) of the Export Administration Act of   (50 U.S.C. App. 2409(a) (3)).   shall not recommend issuing a license unless (1) it has determined that the export would not cause clear and significant harm to the foreign policy interests of   and (2) after appropriate consultations, it has received no objections to the export from the government of the foreign country to which the banned or significantly restricted substance is to be exported. The findings and recommendations of   shall be conveyed in writing to  .

1-307. Except to the extent supplemented or further detailed by this  , the procedures established by the Export Administration Act of   (50 U.S.C. App.   et. seq.), including required consultations with industry, shall be followed in all their particulars in the utilization of export control authority on foreign policy grounds with respect to banned or significantly restricted substances.

1-4.   Report on Regulatory Actions

1-401.   shall compile   a report that

(a) summarizes all final regulatory actions of the types described in   that were taken by Federal agencies by the end of  , including those antedating that calendar year but continuing in force, and that are of significant international interest;

(b) summarizes all proposed regulatory actions of the types described in   that were pending before agencies at the end of   and that are of significant international interest;

(c) indicates generally what additional information is available with respect to each of the final or proposed regulatory actions listed and how such information may be obtained; and

(d) contains such information as the  , in consultation with affected agencies, determines is appropriate to include regarding substances the use of which in   is not generally banned but, on the basis of potential risks to human health or safety or to the environment, is subject to maximum exposure levels or other restrictions or conditions.

1-402. Each agency shall provide to   the information necessary for the preparation of the   report on regulatory actions.   shall establish, after consultation with affected agencies and within   after the issuance of this  , a standard format and timetable for the submission of information by the agencies.

1-403.   shall publish the report required by subsection 1-401 in   by  , and   shall distribute copies of the report to foreign countries and to appropriate public and private international organizations as soon as feasible after its publication.

1-5. Participation in International Efforts

1-501.  , and other agencies and officials of the   government in consultation with  , shall encourage and participate actively in international efforts to develop improved worldwide hazard alert systems, export notification programs, uniform hazard labeling, and other common standards and practices with respect to the export of banned or significantly restricted substances.

1-6. Evaluation

1-601.  ,  , and  , in consultation with agencies affected by this  , shall submit to the President   after the effective date of the   and   thereafter, a report summarizing   agency activities pursuant to the  , evaluating the effectiveness of the  , and making any recommendations that are deemed appropriate.

1-7.  

1-701. Trade secrets or other confidential commercial or financial information that pertain to a banned or significantly restricted substance to be exported shall not be forwarded to a foreign government in the notifications or other documents prepared pursuant to this   unless authorized or required by existing law.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:24 p.m.,  ]
