Executive Order  — -Iran Agreement on Release of the American Hostages
 
 

RESTRICTIONS ON THE TRANSFER OF PROPERTY OF THE FORMER SHAH OF IRAN

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 203 of   ( ), Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, Section 1732 of Title 22 of the United States Code, and Section 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ), in view of the continuing unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of   upon which I based my declarations of national emergency in Executive Order  , issued  , and in Executive Order  , issued  , in order to implement agreements with  , as reflected in   dated  , relating to the release of   diplomats and nationals being held as hostages and to the resolution of claims of   nationals against  , and to begin the process of normalization of relations between   and  , it is hereby ordered that as of the effective date of this Order:

1-101. For the purpose of protecting the rights of litigants in courts within  , all property and assets located in   within the control of the estate of  , the former   of  , or any close relative of the former   served as a defendant in litigation in such courts brought by   seeking the return of property alleged to belong to  , is hereby blocked as to each such estate or person until all such litigation against such estate or person is finally terminated.

1-102. The Secretary of the   is authorized and directed (a) to promulgate regulations requiring all persons who are subject to the jurisdiction of   and who, as of  , or as of this date, have actual or constructive possession of property of the kind described in Section 1-101, or knowledge of such possession by others, to report such possession or knowledge thereof, to the Secretary of the   in accordance with such regulations and (b) to make available to   or its designated agents all identifying information derived from such reports to the fullest extent permitted by law. Such reports shall be required as to all individuals described in 1-101 and shall be required to be filed within   after publication of a notice in  .

 . The Secretary of the   is authorized and directed (a) to require all agencies within   of   to deliver to the Secretary all official financial books and records which serve to identify any property of the kind described in Section 1-101 of this  , and (b) to make available to   or its designated agents all identifying information derived from such books and records to the fullest extent permitted by law.

1-104. The Attorney General of   having advised the President of his opinion that no claim on behalf of   for recovery of property of the kind described in Section 1-101 of this   should be considered legally barred either by sovereign immunity principles or by the act of state doctrine, the Attorney General is authorized and directed to prepare, and upon the request of counsel representing   to present to the appropriate court or courts within  , suggestions of interest reflecting that such is the position of  , and that it is also the position of   that   decrees and judgments relating to the assets of the former   and the persons described in Section 1-101 should be enforced by such courts in accordance with   law.

1-105. The Secretary of the   is delegated and authorized to exercise all functions vested in the President by   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) to carry out the purposes of this  .

1-106. This   shall be effective immediately.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:26 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   on  .
