Executive Order  — -Iran Agreement on Release of the American Hostages
 
 

NON-PROSECUTION OF CLAIMS OF HOSTAGES AND FOR ACTIONS AT   AND ELSEWHERE

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 203 of   ( ), Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, Section 1732 of Title 22 of the United States Code, and Section 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ), in view of the continuing unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of   upon which I based by declarations of national emergency in Executive Order  , issued  , and in Executive Order  , issued  , in order to implement agreements with  , as reflected in   dated  , relating to the release of   diplomats and nationals being held as hostages and to the resolution of claims of   nationals against  , and to begin the process of normalization of relations between   and  , it is hereby ordered that as of the effective date of this Order:

1-101. The Secretary of the   shall promulgate regulations: (a) prohibiting any person subject to   jurisdiction from prosecuting in any court within   or elsewhere any claim against the Government of Iran arising out of events occurring before the date of this   relating to (1) the seizure of the hostages on  , (2) their subsequent detention, (3) injury to   property or property of   nationals within   compound in   after  , or (4) injury to   nationals or their property as a result of popular movements in the course of the Islamic Revolution in   which were not an act of  ; (b) prohibiting any person not a   national from prosecuting any such claim in any court within  ; (c) ordering the termination of any previously instituted judicial proceedings based upon such claims; and (d) prohibiting the enforcement of any judicial order issued in the course of such proceedings.

1-102. The Attorney General of   is authorized and directed, immediately upon the issuance of regulations in accordance with Section 1-101, to take all appropriate measures to notify all appropriate courts of the existence of this   and implementing regulations and the resulting termination of litigation.

1-103. The Secretary of the   is delegated and authorized to exercise all functions vested in the President by   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) to carry out the purpose of this  .

1-104. This   shall be effective immediately.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:25 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   on  .
