Executive Order  —Executive Order Relating to Proclamation of Pardon
 
 

RELATING TO VIOLATIONS OF THE SELECTIVE SERVICE ACT,  

The following actions shall be taken to facilitate Presidential Proclamation of Pardon of  . The Attorney General shall cause to be dismissed with prejudice to the government all pending indictments for violations of   alleged to have occurred   with the exception of the following:

(a) Those cases alleging acts of force or violence deemed to be so serious by the Attorney General as to warrant continued prosecution; and

(b) Those cases alleging acts in violation of   by agents, employees or officers of   arising out of such employment.

2. The Attorney General shall terminate all investigations now pending and shall not initiate further investigations alleging violations of    , with the exception of the following:

(a) Those cases involving allegations of force or violence deemed to be so serious by the Attorney General as to warrant continued investigation, or possible prosecution; and

(b) Those cases alleging acts in violation of   by agents, employees or officers of   arising out of such employment.

3. Any person who is or may be precluded from reentering   under 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(22) or under any other law, by reason of having committed or apparently committed any violation of   shall be permitted as any other alien to reenter  .

The Attorney General is directed to exercise his discretion   (5) or other applicable law to permit the reentry of such persons under the same terms and conditions as any other alien.

This shall not include anyone who falls into the exceptions of  ) and (b) and 2(a) and (b) above.

4. Any individual offered conditional clemency or granted a pardon or other clemency under Executive Order   or Presidential Proclamation 4313, dated  , shall receive the full measure of relief afforded by this program if they are otherwise qualified under the terms of this Executive Order.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 1:05 p.m.,  ]
