Executive Order  — -Iran Agreement on Release of the American Hostages
 
 

DIRECTION TO TRANSFER IRANIAN GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL ASSETS HELD BY NON-BANKING INSTITUTIONS

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 203 of   ( ), Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, Section 1732 of Title 22 of the United States Code, and Section 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ), in view of the continuing unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of   upon which I based my declarations of national emergency in Executive Order  , issued  , and in Executive Order  , issued  , in order to implement agreements with  , as reflected in   dated  , relating to the release of   diplomats and nationals being held as hostages and to the resolution of claims of   nationals against  , and to begin the process of normalization of relations between   and   and in which   and   instruct and require that the assets described in this   shall be transferred as set forth below by the holders of such assets, it is hereby ordered that as of the effective date of this Order:

1-101. Any person subject to the jurisdiction of   which is not a banking institution and is on the effective date in possession or control of funds or securities of   or its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities is licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to transfer such funds or securities to   of   to be held or transferred as directed by the Secretary of the  .

1-102. (a) All licenses and authorizations for acquiring or exercising any right, power, or privilege, by court order, attachment, or otherwise, including the license contained in Section 535.504 of  , with respect to the properties described in Section 1-101 of this   are revoked and withdrawn.

(b) All rights, powers, and privileges relating to the properties described in section 1-101 of this   and which derive from any attachment, injunction, other like proceedings or process, or other action in any litigation after  , at 8:10 a.m. EST, including those derived from Section 535.504 of  , other than rights, powers, and privileges of   and its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, whether acquired by court order or otherwise, are nullified, and all persons claiming any such right, power, or privilege are hereafter barred from exercising the same.

(c) All persons subject to the jurisdiction of   are prohibited from acquiring or exercising any right, power, or privilege, whether by court order or otherwise, with respect to the properties (and any income earned thereon) referred to in Section 1-101 of this  .

1-103. Compliance with this Executive Order, any other Executive Order licensing, authorizing, directing or compelling the transfer of the assets described in paragraph 1-101 of this  , or any regulations, instructions, or directions issued thereunder shall to the extent thereof be a full acquittance and discharge for all purposes of the obligation of the person making the same. No person shall be held liable in any court for or with respect to anything done or omitted in good faith in connection with the administration of, or pursuant to and in reliance on, such orders, regulations, instructions, or directions.

1-104. The Attorney General shall seek to intervene in any litigation within   which arises out of this   and shall, among other things, defend the legality of and all actions taken pursuant to, each of its provisions.

1-105. The Secretary of the   is delegated and authorized to exercise all functions vested in the President by   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) to carry out the purposes of this  .

1-106. This   shall be effective immediately.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:22 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   on  .
