Executive Order  — -Iran Agreement on Release of the American Hostages
 
 

DIRECTION RELATING TO ESTABLISHMENT OF ESCROW ACCOUNTS

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 203 of   ( ), Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, Section 1732 of Title 22 of the United States Code, and Section 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  ), in view of the continuing unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of   upon which I based my declarations of national emergency in Executive Order  , issued  , and in Executive Order  , issued  , in order to implement agreements with  , as reflected in   dated  , relating to the release of   diplomats and nationals being held as hostages and to the resolution of claims of   nationals against  , and to begin the process of normalization of relations between   and  , it is hereby ordered that as of the effective date of this Order:

1-101. The Secretary of the   is authorized to enter into, and to license, authorize, direct, and compel any appropriate official and/or   of  , as fiscal agent of  , to enter into escrow or related agreements with a foreign central bank and with   under which certain money and other assets, as and when directed by the Secretary of the  , shall be credited by   to an escrow account on its books in the name of  , for transfer to   if and when   receives from   a certification that the 52   diplomats and nationals being held hostage in   have safely departed from  . Such agreements shall include other parties and terms as determined by the Secretary of the   to be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  .

1-102. The Secretary of the   is authorized to license, authorize, direct, and compel   of  , as fiscal agent of  , to receive certain money and other assets in which   or its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities have an interest and to hold or transfer such money and other assets, and any interest earned thereon, in such a manner as he deems necessary to fulfill the rights and obligations of   under the Declaration of the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria dated  , and the escrow and related agreements described in paragraph 1-101 of this Order. Such money and other assets may be held in interest-bearing form and where possible shall be invested with or through the entity holding the money or asset on the effective date of this Order.

1-103. Compliance with this Executive Order, any other Executive Order licensing, authorizing, directing or compelling the transfer of the assets referred to in paragraphs 1-101 and 1-102 of this  , or any regulations, instructions, or directions issued thereunder shall to the extent thereof be a full acquittance and discharge for all purposes of the obligation of the person making the same. No person shall be held liable in any court for or with respect to anything done or omitted in good faith in connection with the administration of, or pursuant to and in reliance on, such orders, regulations, instructions, or directions.

1-104. The Attorney General shall seek to intervene in any litigation within   which arises out of this   and shall, among other things, defend the legality of, and all actions taken pursuant to, each of its provisions.

1-105. The Secretary of the   is delegated and authorized to exercise all functions vested in the President by   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) to carry out the purposes of this  .

1-106. This   shall be effective immediately.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:17 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   on  .
