Executive Order  —Export Administration Act of  
 
 

ADMINISTRATION OF THE EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT OF  , AS AMENDED

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including the Export Administration Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  , et seq.), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Except as provided in Section 2, the power, authority, and discretion conferred upon the President by the provisions of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  , et seq.), hereinafter referred to as the Act, are delegated to the Secretary, of  , with the power of successive redelegation.

 . 2. (a) The power, authority and discretion conferred upon the President in   4(h) and 4(1) of the Act are retained by the President.

(b) The power, authority and discretion conferred upon the President in Section 3(8) of the Act, which directs that every reasonable effort be made to secure the removal or reduction of assistance by foreign countries to international terrorists through cooperation and agreement, are delegated to the Secretary of  , with the power of successive redelegation.

 . 3.  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which was established by Executive Order No.  , as amended, is hereby continued. The Board shall continue to have as members the Secretary of  , who shall be Chairman of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Chairman of   (Section 7 of Executive Order No.  , as amended). No alternate Board members shall be designated, but the acting, head of any department may serve in lieu of the head of the concerned department. In the case of the East-West Foreign Trade Board, the Deputy Chairman or the Executive Secretary may serve in lieu of the Chairman.   may invite the heads of other   departments or agencies, other than the agencies represented by   members, to participate in the activities of the   when matters of interest to such departments or agencies are under consideration.

 . 4. The Secretary of   may from time to time refer to the   such particular export license matters, involving questions of national security or other major policy issues, as the Secretary shall select. The Secretary of   shall also refer to the   any other such export license matter, upon the request of any other member of the   or of the head of any other   department or agency having any interest in such matter. The   shall consider the matters so referred to it, giving due consideration to the foreign policy of  , the national security, and the domestic economy, and shall make recommendation thereon to the Secretary of  .

 . 5. The President may at any time (a) prescribe rules and regulations applicable to the power, authority, and discreation referred to in this  , and (b) communicate to the Secretary of Commerce such specific directives applicable thereto as the President shall determine. The Secretary of Commerce shall from time to time report to the President upon the administration of the Act and, as the Secretary deems necessary, may refer to the President recommendations made by  . Neither the provisions of this section nor those of Section 4 shall be construed as limiting the provisions of Section 1 of this  .

 .. 6. All delegations, rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action made, issued, or otherwise taken under, or continued in existence by, the Executive orders revoked in Section 7 of this  , and not revoked administratively or legislatively, shall remain in full force and effect under this   until amended, modified, or terminated by proper authority. The revocations in Section 7 of this   shall not affect any violation of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses or other forms of administrative action under those Orders during the period those Orders were in effect.

 . 7. Executive  .  , Executive Order No.   of August 29,  , Executive Order No. 11798 of  , Executive Order No.   of  , Executive Order No. 11907 of  , and Executive Order No. 11940 of September 30,   are hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:13 p.m.,  ,  ]

Note: The Executive order was not issued in the form of a   press release.
