Executive Order  — 
 
 

TRANSFERRING CERTAIN BICENTENNIAL FUNCTIONS TO THE SECRETARY OF THIS INTERIOR

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 7(b) of the Act of   (87 Stat. 701), hereinafter referred to as the Act, Section 202(b) of   of   (64 Stat. 838, 31 U.S.C. 581c(b) ), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of   it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of the  , hereinafter referred to as the Secretary, shall, through existing   programs, provide for the continuation of appropriate commemoration of events relating to the American Revolution until  .

 . 2. The Secretary shall administer existing contracts and grants of the American Revolution Bicentennial Administration, hereinafter referred to as  .

 . 3. In performing the functions described in Section 1 and 2 of this  , the Secretary may, in addition to any other available authority, exercise the following powers under the Act which are hereby transferred to him for such purposes until  , except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this Section:

(a) All powers described in Section 2(f) of the Act with respect to the expenditure of funds donated to   prior to the effective date of this  , and the expenditure of revenues received or which may be received pursuant to contracts described in Section 2 of this  .

(b) Until  , all powers exercised by   prior to the effective date of this   which relate to enforcement of Section 2(i) of the Act.

(c) All powers described in Section 5(a) of the Act.

 . 4. All personnel, records, property and appropriations, including all funds and revenues described in Section 3(a) of this  , as relate to the powers and functions assigned or transferred by this   are hereby transferred to the Secretary.

 . 5. The Director of   shall make such determinations and issue such orders as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the transfers provided by this  .

 . 6. Executive  .   of  , is hereby revoked.

 . 7. This   shall be effective  .

 

 ,  .

[Filed with  , 10:34 a.m.,  ]
