Executive Order 12064— 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to create in accordance with   (5 U.S.C. App. I) an advisory commission on the membership of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of the  .

1-101. There is established  . The   shall be comprised of six members appointed by the President.

1-102. Not more than three members shall be officials of the Federal government. The   members shall include    , who shall chair the  . The private members shall have special expertise in the field of Federal taxation.

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. When notified by the President that he desires its assistance in filling a vacancy on  , the   shall conduct inquiries to identify persons who may be qualified to serve in the position and shall conduct further inquiries to determine those persons' qualifications.

1-202. In conducting its inquiries the   shall follow any procedures or criteria established by the President in his letter of notification or by the Secretary of the   acting on behalf of the President.

1-203. The   shall submit a report to the President and to the Secretary of the   within   from the date it is notified by the President that he desires its assistance. The report shall list the names of no more than five persons whom the   considers well qualified to serve in the position.

1-204. The   shall conduct such additional inquiries and submit such additional reports as may be requested by the President.

1-205. The   shall perform no function except when requested by the President to assist him in filling a vacancy.

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. The   is authorized to request from any Executive agency such information or assistance as the   deems necessary to carry out its functions under this  . Each agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish such information or assistance to the  .

1-302. The   is authorized to request from any   agency such information and assistance as the   deems necessary. It is authorized to obtain such information and assistance to the extent permitted by   law.

1-303. Members of the   shall serve without compensation. While engaged in the work of the  , members may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-304. The Secretary of the   shall furnish to the   necessary administrative support.

1-305. All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the  , to the extent permitted by law, shall be paid from funds available to the Secretary of the  .

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. No member of the   shall, while serving on the   or for a period of   thereafter, be eligible to be nominated to fill a position as a judge on  .

1-402. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of the   in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

1-403. The   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:19 a.m.,  ]
