Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), a committee to advise on the progress of   authorities and the nuclear power industry in improving the safety of nuclear power and in implementing the approved recommendations of   on the Accident at  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of the  .

1-101. There is established  .

1-102. The membership of the   shall be composed of five persons appointed by the President from among citizens who do not receive a salary from the Federal government. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall periodically report to the President, the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , and   advice on the progress being made in improving nuclear safety. The  's report shall also advise on the progress being made in implementing those recommendations of   on the Accident at Three Mile Island which were approved by the President ( ).

1-202. The   shall advise on the extent of progress made by   in effecting management, substantive, and procedural reforms to improve safety. The   shall evaluate the recommendations of the Chairman of   concerning the possible modification of the responsibilities of  .

1-203. The   shall advise as to whether or not   and the nuclear power industry are fulfilling their responsibilities in upgrading the capabilities and training of utility operating and management personnel.

1-204. The   shall evaluate the progress being made in making or encouraging technical modifications to power reactors to improve safety, including improved control room design, and evaluate the   program in safety research.

1-205. The   shall advise on the success of developing a coordinated program to improve worker and public health safety.

1-206. The   shall advise on the progress of   in its review of   and local off-site emergency planning and preparedness, and evaluate the progress of   and local governments in establishing emergency response plans.

1-207. The   shall evaluate the progress being made in improving public information on nuclear safety and shall evaluate the progress of   in coordinating any Federal response to potential nuclear emergencies.

1-208. To the extent the   deems it necessary to carry out its other functions, the   shall monitor the activities of   agencies and the nuclear power industry.

1-209. The   shall enter into agreements with  ,  , and  ,  ,  , and other Federal agencies, as well as   agencies and the nuclear power industry on procedures for obtaining the information necessary to monitor their activities and to carry out the  's advisory functions.

1-210. The   shall include in its reports the  's .advice as to the adequacy of the information it has received from   agencies and from the nuclear power industry; and, its assessment of the cooperation it has received from them.

1-211. The   shall prepare and transmit to the President, as soon as possible, a report on the progress of   and of the nuclear utilities in upgrading the selection criteria and the training of utility operating personnel. The   shall report to the President its other findings, evaluations, and recommendations from time to time as it deems appropriate, but in any event, at least once  .

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. The Chairman of the   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of a staff of such persons as may be necessary to discharge the  's responsibilities, subject to the applicable provisions of law, including  , as amended, and Title 5 of the United States Code.

1-302. To the extent authorized by law and requested by the Chairman of the  ,   shall provide the   with necessary administrative services, facilities, and support on a reimbursable basis.

1-303.   and  , and   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such facilities, support, funds and services, as may be necessary for the effective performance of the  's functions.

1-304. The   may request any Executive agency to furnish such information, advice or assistance it deems necessary to carry out its functions. Each agency shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, furnish the information, advice or assistance requested by the Chairman of the  .

1-305. Each member of the   may receive compensation at the maximum rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for   such member is engaged in the work of the   (5 U.S.C.   and rules pursuant to  , as amended). Each member may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. The functions of the President under  , as amended, which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by  .

1-402. The   shall terminate on  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:10 a.m.,  ]
