Executive Order  —Telecommunications Functions
 
 

RELATING TO THE TRANSFER OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FUNCTIONS

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including Section 7 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of   (42 FR 56101 ( )), the authority and control vested in the President by Section 2 of Executive Order No.  , as amended, Section 202 of   of   (31 U.S.C. 581c), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , in order to provide for the transfer of certain telecommunications functions, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1

REORGANIZATION PLAN

1-1. Implementation of Reorganization Plan.

1-101. The transfer of all the functions of   and of its Director, as provided by Section 5B of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of   (42 FR 56101), is hereby effective.

1-102. The abolition of  , as provided by  . 1 of  , is hereby effective.

1-103. The establishment of an Assistant Secretary for  , as provided by Section 4 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of  , is hereby effective.

1-2. Telecommunications Function.

1-201. Prior to the effective date of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of  ,   and its Director had the functions set forth or referenced by: (1) Section 1 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of   (5 U.S.C. App. II), (2) Executive Order No.   of September 4,  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 305 note), (3) Executive Order No.   of  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 721 note), (4) Executive Order No. 10705 of  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 606 note), and (5) Presidential Memorandum of  , as amended by Executive Order No.   and entitled "Establishment of the National Communications System."

1-202. So much of those functions which relate to the preparation of Presidential telecommunications policy options or to the disposition of appeals from assignments of radio frequencies to stations of   were transferred to the President. These functions may be delegated within   of the President and the delegations are set forth in this Order at Sections 3-1 through 4-3.

1-203. Those telecommunications functions which were not transferred to the President were transferred to the Secretary of  . Functions transferred to the Secretary are set forth in this Order at Sections 2-1 through 2-5.

SECTION 2

FUNCTIONS TRANSFERRED TO  

2-1.  .

2-101. The authority of the President to assign frequencies to radio stations or to classes of radio stations belonging to and operated by  , including the authority to amend, modify, or revoke such assignments, was transferred to the Secretary of  .

2-102. This authority, which was originally vested in the President by Section 305(a) of the Communications Act of  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 305(a)), was transferred and assigned to the Director of   by Section 1 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of   and Section 3 of Executive Order No.  .

2-103. The authority to assign frequencies to radio stations is subject to the authority to dispose of appeals from frequency assignments as set forth in Section 3-2 of this Order.

2-2. Construction of Radio Stations.

2-201. The authority to authorize a foreign government to construct and operate a radio station at the seat of government of   was transferred to the Secretary of  . Authorization for the construction and operation of a radio station pursuant to this authority and the assignment of a frequency for its use can be made only upon recommendation of the Secretary of   and after consultation with the Attorney General and the Chairman of  .

2-202. This authority, which was originally vested in the President by Section 305(d) of the Communications Act of  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 305), was delegated to the Director of   by Section 5 of Executive Order No.  .

2-3.  .

2-301. Certain functions relating to the communications satellite system were transferred to the Secretary of  . Those functions were delegated or assigned to the Director of   by Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive Order No.  . The functions include authority vested in the President by Section 201(a) of the Communications Satellite Act of   (76 Stat. 421, 47 U.S.C. 721(a)). These functions are specifically set forth in the following provisions of this Section.

(a) Aid in the planning and development of the commercial communications satellite system and aid in the execution of a national program for the operation of such a system.

(b) Conduct a continuous review of all phases of the development and operation of such system, including the activities of the  .

(c) Coordinate, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the activities of governmental agencies with responsibilities in the field of telecommunications, so as to insure that there is full and effective compliance at all times with the policies set forth in the Act.

(d) Make recommendations to the President and others as appropriate, with respect to all steps necessary to insure the availability and appropriate utilization of the communications satellite system for general government purposes in consonance with Section 201 (a) (6) of the Act.

(e) Help attain coordinated and efficient use of the electromagnetic spectrum and the technical compatibility of the communications satellite system with existing communications facilities both in   and abroad.

(f) Assist in the preparation of Presidential action documents for consideration by the President as may be appropriate tinder Section 201(a) of the Act, make necessary recommendations to the President in connection therewith, and keep the President currently informed with respect to the carrying out of the Act.

(g) Serve as the chief point of liaison between the President and the  .

(h) The Secretary of Commerce shall timely submit to the President   the report (including evaluations and recommendations) provided for in Section 404(a) of the Act (47 U.S.C. 744(a)).

(i) The Secretary of   shall coordinate the performance of these functions with the Secretary of  . The   and other concerned Executive agencies shall provide the Secretary of Commerce with such assistance, documents, and other cooperation as will enable the Secretary to carry out these functions.

2-4. Other Telecommunications Functions. Certain functions assigned, subject to the authority and control of the President to the Director of   by Section 2 of Executive Order No.   were transferred to the Secretary of  . These functions, subject to the authority and control of the President, are set forth in the following subsections.

2-401. The Secretary of   shall serve as the President's principal adviser on telecommunications policies pertaining to the  's economic and technological advancement and to the regulation of the telecommunications industry.

2-402. The Secretary of   shall advise the Director of   on the development of policies relating to the procurement and management of Federal telecommunications systems.

2-403. The Secretary of   shall conduct studies and evaluations concerning telecommunications research and development, and concerning the initiation, improvement, expansion, testing, operation, and use of Federal telecommunications systems. The Secretary shall advise appropriate agencies, including  , of the recommendations which result from such studies and evaluations.

2-404. The Secretary of   shall develop and set forth, in coordination with the Secretary of   and other interested agencies, plans, policies, and programs which. relate to international telecommunications issues, conferences, and negotiations. The Secretary of   shall coordinate economic, technical, operational and related preparations for   participation in international telecommunications conferences and negotiations. The Secretary shall provide advice and assistance to the Secretary of   on international telecommunications policies to strengthen the position and serve the best interests of  , in support of the Secretary of  's responsibility for the conduct of foreign affairs.

2-405. The Secretary of   shall provide for the coordination of the telecommunications activities of  , and shall assist in the formulation of policies and standards for those activities, including but not limited to considerations of interoperability, privacy, security, spectrum use and emergency readiness.

2-406. The Secretary of   shall develop and set forth telecommunications policies pertaining to the  's economic and technological advancement and to the regulation of the telecommunications industry.

2-407. The Secretary of   shall ensure that the   views on telecommunications matters are effectively presented to   and, in coordination with the Director of  , to the  .

2-408. The Secretary of Commerce shall establish policies concerning spectrum assignments and use by radio stations belonging to and operated by  . Agencies shall consult with the Secretary of   to ensure that their conduct of telecommunications activities is consistent with those policies.

2-409. The Secretary of Commerce shall develop, in cooperation with  , a comprehensive long-range plan for improved management of all electromagnetic spectrum resources.

2-410. The Secretary of   shall conduct studies and make recommendations concerning the impact of the convergence of computer and communications technology.

2-411. The Secretary of   shall coordinate Federal telecommunications assistance to   and local governments.

2-412. The Secretary of   shall conduct and coordinate economic and technical analyses of telecommunications policies, activities, and opportunities in support of assigned responsibilities.

2-413. The Secretary of   shall contract for studies and reports related to any aspect of assigned responsibilities.

2-414. The Secretary of Commerce shall participate with   and the Director of   in carrying out their functions under  , 4-2, and 4-3 of this  , and may perform specific staff services for them as requested.

2-5. Consultation Responsibilities.

2-501. The authority to establish coordinating committees, as assigned to the Director of   by Section 10 of Executive Order No.  , was transferred to the Secretary of  .

2-502. As permitted by law, the Secretary of Commerce shall establish such interagency committees and working groups composed of representatives of interested agencies, and shall consult with such departments and agencies as may be necessary for the most effective performance of his functions. To the extent he deems it necessary to continue  , that   shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary. As permitted by law, the Secretary also shall establish one or more telecommunications advisory committees composed of experts in the telecommunications area outside the Government.

SECTION 3

FUNCTIONS ASSIGNED TO  3-1.  .

3-101. The responsibility for serving as the President's principal adviser on procurement and management of   systems and the responsibility for developing and establishing policies for procurement and management of such systems, which responsibilities were assigned to the Director of   subject to the authority and control of the President by Section 2(b) of Executive Order No.  , were transferred to the President.

3 -102. These functions are delegated to the Director of  .

3-2.  .

3 -201. The authority to make final disposition of appeals from frequency assignments by the Secretary of Commerce for radio stations belonging to and operated by  , which authority was vested in the President by Section 305(a) of the Communications Act of   (47 U.S.C. 305(a) ) and transferred to the Director of   by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of   (5 U.S.C. App. II), was transferred to the President.

3-202. This function is delegated to the Director of  .

SECTION 4

FUNCTIONS ASSIGNED TO   AND   POLICY

4-1. Emergency Functions.

4-101. The war power functions of the President under Section 606 of the Communications Act of  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 606), which were delegated to the Director of   by the provisions of Section 4 of Executive Order No.  , were transferred to the President.

4-102. The Director of   shall prepare to direct the exercise of these functions, and   shall prepare to exercise appropriate policy direction, should the President so instruct. These instructions would be given in accordance with the National Emergencies Act (90 Stat.  , 50 U.S.C. 1601).

4-103. The Director of   shall prepare Presidential policy options with respect to the evaluation by appropriate means, including suitable tests, of the capability of existing and planned communications systems to meet national security and emergency preparedness requirements, and report the results and any recommended remedial actions to the President and  .

4-2.  .

4-201. The responsibility for policy direction of the development and operation of a  , which was assigned to the Director of   by    , as amended by Executive Order No.  , was transferred to the President.

4-202. The function is more particularly identified, and is delegated to  , in the amendments made by Section 6-101 of this   to the President's Memorandum of  .

4-3. Planning Functions.

4-301. The function of coordinating the development of policy, plans, programs, and standards for the mobilization and use of the  's telecommunications resources in any emergency, which function was assigned to the Director of   subject to the authority and control of the President by Section 2(h) of Executive Order No.  , was transferred to the President.

4-302.   shall assist the President in the performance of this function.

SECTION 5

RELATED TELECOMMUNICATIONS FUNCTIONS

5-1.  .

5-101. The Secretary of   shall continue to perform the following functions previously assigned by Section 13 of Executive Order No.  :

(a) Perform analysis, engineering, and administrative functions, including the maintenance of necessary files and data bases, as necessary in the performance of assigned responsibilities for the management of electromagnetic spectrum.

(b) Conduct research and analysis of electromagnetic propagation, radio systems characteristics, and operating techniques affecting the utilization of the electromagnetic spectrum in coordination with specialized, related research and analysis performed by other Federal agencies in their areas of responsibility.

(c) Conduct research and analysis in the general field of telecommunications sciences in support of assigned functions and in support of other Government agencies.

5-102. The Secretary of Commerce shall participate, as appropriate, in evaluating the capability of telecommunications resources, in recommending remedial actions, and in developing policy options.

5-2.  .

5-201. With respect to telecommunications, the Secretary of   shall exercise primary authority for the conduct of foreign policy, including the determination of   positions and the conduct of   participation in negotiations with foreign governments and international bodies. In exercising this responsibility the Secretary of   shall coordinate with other agencies as appropriate, and, in particular, shall give full consideration to   regulatory and policy responsibility in this area.

5-202. The Secretary of   shall continue to perform the following functions previously assigned by Executive Order No.  , as amended:

(a) Exercise the supervision provided for in Section 201 (a) (4) of the Communications Satellite Act of  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 721 (a) (4)); be responsible, although the Secretary of   is the chief point of liaison, for instructing   in its role as the designated   representative to  ; and direct the foreign relations of   with respect to actions tinder the Communications Satellite Act of  , as amended.

(b) Coordinate, in accordance with the applicable interagency agreements, the performance of these functions with the Secretary of  ,  , other concerned Executive agencies, and   (see 47 U.S.C. 731 735). The   and other concerned Executive agencies shall provide the Secretary of   with such assistance, documents, and other cooperation as will enable the Secretary to carry out these functions.

5-3.  .   shall coordinate with the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and   the development of policies, plans, programs, and standards for the emergency rise of telecommunications.

SECTION 6

GENERAL PROVISIONS

6-1. Transfer Provisions.

6-101. In order to reflect the transfer and assignment made by Section 5B of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of   and Section 13 of this  , the President's Memorandum of  , entitled "Establishment of the National Communications System" (28 FR 9413, 3 CFR 1959   Compilation) as amended by Section 8 of Executive Order No.  , is further amended as follows:

(a) Delete the first paragraph after the heading "Executive Office Responsibilities" and substitute therefor:

"  shall be responsible for Presidential policy options concerning the development and .operation of   ( ) and shall:".

(b)   the last two paragraphs in that part of the memo headed "Executive Office Responsibilities" and substitute therefor:

"In performing these functions,   will consult with the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , and  , as appropriate; will establish arrangements for interagency consultation to ensure that the   will meet essential needs of all government agencies; and will be responsible for carrying on the work formerly done by     of  . In addition to staff regularly assigned,   and the Director of   may arrange for the detail or temporary assignment of communications and other specialists from any agency.

"The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with  , the Secretary of  ,  , and the Executive Agent of the  , will prescribe general guidelines and procedures for reviewing the financing of the   within the budgetary process and for preparation of budget estimates by participating agencies.".

(c) In the paragraph after the. heading "Agency Responsibilities", delete "Director of  " and substitute therefor " ."

6-102. The primary responsibility for performing all administrative support and service functions that are related to functions transferred from   and its Director to the President, including those functions delegated or assigned within   of the President, are transferred to  . The Domestic Policy Staff shall perform such functions related to the preparation of Presidential telecommunications policy options as the President may from time to time direct.

6-103. The records, property, personnel, and unexpended balances of appropriations, available or to be made available, which relate to the functions transferred, assigned, or delegated as provided in this   are hereby transferred as appropriate.

6-104. The Director of   shall make such determinations, issue such orders, and take all actions necessary or appropriate to effectuate the transfers or reassignments provided in this  , including the transfer of funds, records, property, and personnel.

6-2. Amendments. In order to reflect the transfers provided by this  , the following conforming amendments and revocations are ordered:

6-201. Section 306 of Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended to read:

"Sec. 306. Emergency telecommunications.   shall be responsible for coordinating with   in planning for the mobilization of the  's telecommunications resources in time of national emergency.".

6-202. Executive  .  , as amended is further amended by:

(1) substituting " " for "Office of Telecommunications Policy (35 FR 6421)" in Section 401 (27), and

(2) substituting the number of this   for "11556" and deleting references to Executive Order No.   in Sections 1802 and 2002(3).

6-203. Executive  .  , as amended, is further amended by substituting the number and date of this   for the reference to Executive Order No.   of September 4,   in Section 3(16).

6-204. Executive Orders No.  , as amended, No.  , as amended, and No.  , as amended, are revoked.

6-3. General.

6-301. All Executive agencies to which functions are assigned pursuant to this   shall issue such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry them out.

6-302. All Executive agencies are authorized and directed to cooperate with the departments and agencies to which functions are assigned pursuant to this   and to furnish them such information, support and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as they may require in the performance of those functions.

6-303. (a) Nothing in this   reassigns any function assigned any agency under   of  , as amended, nor does anything in this   impair the existing authority of   to provide and operate telecommunications services and to prescribe policies and methods of procurement, or impair the policy and oversight roles of  .

(b) In carrying out the functions in this  , the Secretary of   shall coordinate activities as appropriate with   and make appropriate recommendations to it as the regulator of the private sector. Nothing in this   reassigns any function vested by law in  .

6—304. This   shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .

Note: The text of the   order was released on  .

For a statement by the President on Executive Order  , see page 611 of this volume.
