Executive Order  —Protection of Wetlands
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , in furtherance of   of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.   et seq.), in order to avoid to the extent possible the long and short term adverse impacts associated with the destruction or modification of wetlands and to avoid direct or indirect support of new construction in wetlands wherever there is a practicable alternative, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) Each agency shall provide leadership and shall take action to minimize the destruction, loss or degradation of wetlands, and to preserve and enhance the natural and beneficial values of wetlands in carrying out the agency's responsibilities for (1) acquiring, managing, and disposing of   lands and facilities; and (2) providing Federally undertaken, financed, or assisted construction and improvements; and (3) conducting Federal activities and programs affecting land use, including but not limited to water and related land resources planning, regulating, and licensing activities.

(b) This   does not apply to the issuance by Federal agencies of permits, licenses, or allocations to private parties for activities involving wetlands on   property.

 . 2. (a) In furtherance of Section 101 (b) (3) of   of   (42 U.S.C.   (b) (3) to improve and coordinate Federal plans, functions, programs and resources to the end that the   may attain the widest range of beneficial uses of the environment without degradation and risk to health or safety, each agency, to the extent permitted by law, shall avoid undertaking or providing assistance for new construction located in wetlands unless the head of the agency finds (1) that there is no practicable alternative to such construction, and (2) that the proposed action includes all practicable measures to minimize harm to wetlands which may result from such use. In making this finding the head of the agency may take into account economic, environmental and other pertinent factors.

(b) Each agency shall also provide opportunity for early public review of any plans or proposals for new construction in wetlands, in accordance with Section 2 (b) of Executive Order No.  , as amended, including the development of procedures to accomplish this objective for Federal actions whose impact is not significant enough to require the preparation of an environmental impact statement under Section 102(2)(c) of   of  , as amended.

 . 3. Any requests for new authorizations or appropriations transmitted to   shall indicate, if an action to be proposed will be located in wetlands, whether the proposed action is in accord with this  .

 . 4. When Federally-owned wetlands or portions of wetlands are proposed for lease, easement, right-of-way or disposal to   public or private parties, the   agency shall (a) reference in the conveyance those uses that are restricted under identified Federal, State or local wetlands regulations; and (b) attach other appropriate restrictions to the uses of properties by the grantee or purchaser and any successor, except where prohibited by law; or (c) withhold such properties from disposal.

 . 5. In carrying out the activities described in Section 1 of this  , each agency shall consider factors relevant to a proposal's effect on the survival and quality of the wetlands. Among these factors are:

(a) public health, safety, and welfare, including water supply, quality, recharge and discharge; pollution; flood and storm hazards; and sediment and erosion;

(b) maintenance of natural systems, including conservation and long term productivity of existing flora and fauna, species and habitat diversity and stability, hydrologic utility, fish, wildlife, timber, and food and fiber resources; and

(c) other uses of wetlands in the public interest, including recreational, scientific, and cultural uses.

 . 6. As allowed by law, agencies shall issue or amend their existing procedures in order to comply with this  . To the extent possible, existing processes, such as those of   and  , shall be utilized to fulfill the requirements of this  .

 . 7. As used in this Order:

(a) The term "agency" shall have the same meaning as the term "Executive agency" in Section 105 of Title 5 of the United States Code and shall include the military departments; the directives contained in this  , however, are meant to apply only to those agencies which perform the activities described in Section 1 which are located in or affecting wetlands.

(b) The term "new construction" shall include draining, dredging, channelizing, filling, diking, impounding, and related activities and any structures or facilities begun or authorized after the effective date of this  .

(c) The term "wetlands" means those areas that are inundated by surface or ground water with a frequency sufficient to support and under normal circumstances does or would support a prevalence of vegetative or aquatic life that requires saturated or   saturated soil conditions for growth and reproduction. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas such as sloughs, potholes, wet meadows, river overflows, mud flats, and natural ponds.

 . 8. This   does not apply to projects presently under construction, or to projects for which all of the funds have been appropriated through  , or to projects and programs for which a draft or final environmental impact statement will be filed prior to  . The provisions of Section 2 of this   shall be implemented by each agency not  .

 . 9. Nothing in this   shall apply to assistance provided for emergency work, essential to save lives and protect property and public health and safety, performed pursuant to   and 306 of the Disaster Relief Act of   (88 Stat. 148, 42 U.S.C.   and 5146).

 . 10. To the extent the provisions of   and 5 of this   are applicable to projects covered by Section 104(h) of   of  , as amended (88 Stat. 640,   U.S.C. 5304(h)), the responsibilities under those provisions may be assumed by the appropriate applicant, if the applicant has also assumed, with respect to such projects, all of the responsibilities for environmental review, decisionmaking, and action pursuant to   of  , as amended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 1:44 p.m.,  ]
