Executive Order   
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to amend the responsibilities of   and to continue its work of enriching both the Government and the private sectors by enabling the most promising executive to work in the other sector, it is hereby ordered as follows:

 . Establishment of the  .

1-101. The President's   is continued and renamed  .

1-102. The   shall be composed of such officials in the   agencies and such persons from the private sector as the President may from time to time appoint. The Chairman shall be designated by the President. The members of the commission and the Chairman shall serve   terms at the pleasure of the President.

1-103. Members of the   who are officers or employees of the   shall receive no additional compensation by reason of this  , and members who are not such officers or employees shall serve without compensation, but shall be provided with travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law.

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall develop   in which promising executives from the   agencies, and from the private sector, who have demonstrated the ability to rise to high management positions, will be selected as   Executives and placed in positions in the other sector which offer significant challenge, responsibility, and regular and continuing contact with senior officials.

1-202. The   shall develop an education program which places the work experience of the Exchange Executive in the broader context of both   and the private sector.

1-203. The   shall supervise and review the operation of the  , and recommend to the President ways to promote and improve the exchange between the Government and the private sector.

1-204. The   shall ensure that the   operates in compliance with the merit principles set forth in   of Title 5 of the United States Code.

1-3. Responsibilities of Executive Agencies.

1-301. Each Executive agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, cooperate with the   and furnish it with such assistance as the Chairman may request in connection with the  .

1-302. The head of each Executive agency shall designate a presidential appointee who is not a member of the   to serve as liaison to the  .

1—4. Administrative Provisions.

1-401.   shall provide the   with administrative services, staff support, and travel expenses, as authorized by law.

1-402. Executive  . 11451 of January 19,  , is superseded.

 

 ,  .

[Filed with  , 3:02 p.m.,  ]
