Executive Order 12062—President's Commission on  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to establish, pursuant to the provisions of   (5 U.S.C. App. I), a balanced forum to review the state of the  's coal industry, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1- 1. Establishment and Membership.

1-101. There is hereby established   on  .

1-102. The membership of the   shall be as follows:

(a) Five members shall be appointed by the President. One shall represent the interests of labor, one shall represent management and three shall represent the general public. The labor and management representatives shall be chosen from among candidates recommended by   and  , but shall not be members of these organizations. The President shall designate one of the members representing the general public to chair the  .

(b) The President of the   and the Speaker of   may designate three members of their respective   to serve as nonvoting members of the  .

(c) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   or their designees shall also serve as non-voting members of the  .

1-2. Functions.

1-201. The   shall conduct a comprehensive review of the state of the coal industry in   with particular emphasis on matters pertaining to productivity, capital investment, and the general economic health of the industry; collective bargaining, grievance procedures, and such other aspects of labormanagement relations as the   deems appropriate; health, safety and living conditions in the  's coal fields; the development and application of new technologies to the industry; the impact on the coal industry of Federal regulations; and such other matters as the   deems appropriate.

1-202. The five members appointed by the President shall prepare and transmit a final report of their findings and recommendations to the President, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  .

1-203. To assist the   in the exercise of its functions, the   may sponsor a White House Conference on the future of the coal industry.

1-3. Administration.

1-301. To the extent authorized by law,   shall provide the   with all necessary administrative services, facilities and support on a reimbursable basis.

1-302.   and   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such information, advice, services and funds as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

1-303. Each member of the   who is not otherwise employed in the   may receive compensation at the rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for GS-15 of the General Schedule for   such member is engaged in the work of the  . Each member may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-304. The functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I) which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by  .

1-4.  .

1-401. The final report required by Section 1-202 of this   shall be transmitted not   from the date of the first meeting of the  .

1-402. The   shall terminate   after submission of its final report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:06 p.m.,  ]
