Executive Order  —The President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to expand the membership of  , in accord with the provisions of   (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment and Membership.

1-101. There is established the President's  .

1-102. The membership of the   shall be as follows:

(a) The heads of the following Executive agencies or their representatives:

(1)  .

(2) Department of the  .

(3)  .

(4)  .

(5)  .

(6) Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations.

(7)  .

(b) Three members of  , designated by the President of the  , and three members of   designated by the Speaker of the  .

(c) Not to exceed 28 citizens appointed by the President. These individuals shall be selected from those who are not fulltime Federal officers or employees. They shall include representatives of business and industry, agriculture, and labor.

1-103. The President shall designate a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among the members appointed by the President.

1-104. The Secretary of  , with the concurrence of the Chairman, shall appoint an Executive Director.

1-2. Functions.

1-201. The   shall serve as a national advisory body on matters relating to   export trade, including advice on the implementation of the President's  , which was announced on  . It shall, through the Secretary of  , report to the President on its activities and on its recommendations for expanding   exports.

1-202. The   should survey and evaluate the export expansion activities of the communities represented by the membership. It should identify and examine specific problems which business, industrial, and agricultural practices may cause for export trade, and examine the needs of business, industry, and agriculture to expand their efforts. The   should recommend specific solutions to these problems and needs.

1-203. The   may act as liaison among the communities represented by the membership; and, may provide a forum for those communities on current and emerging problems and issues in the field of export expansion. The   should encourage the business, industrial, and agricultural communities to enter new foreign markets and to expand existing export programs.

1-204. The   shall provide advice on   plans and actions that affect export expansion policies which have an impact on those communities represented by the membership.

1-205. The   may establish, with the concurrence of the Secretary of  , an executive committee and such other subordinate committees it considers necessary for the performance of its functions. The Chairman of a subordinate committee shall be designated, with the concurrence of the Secretary of  , by the Chairman of the   from among the membership of the  . Members of subordinate committees shall be appointed by the Secretary of  .

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

• 1-301. The Secretary of Commerce shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the  , including its executive and subordinate committees, with administrative and staff services, support and facilities as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

1-302. Each member of the  , including its executive and subordinate committees, who is not otherwise paid a salary by  , shall receive no compensation from   by virtue of their service on the  , but all members may receive the transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.G. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

1-402. Executive  .   is revoked; however, nothing in this   shall be deemed to require new charters for the  , including its executive and subordinate committees, which were current immediately prior to the issuance of this  .

1-403. The   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with   5:03 p.m.,  ]
