Executive Order  — 
 
 

ESTABLISHING THE COMMITTEE ON

SELECTION OF FEDERAL JUDICIAL OFFICERS

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , in accordance with the provisions of   (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of the  . There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall consist of a Chairman and six other members to be appointed by the President.

 . 2. Functions. When requested by the President, the   shall conduct inquiries to identify persons who may be qualified to serve as   judicial officers, other than   or  , and shall conduct investigations of those persons to determine their qualifications.

 . 3. Procedures; Report. (a) When notified by the President that he desires its assistance in filling a   judicial vacancy, other than a   or   vacancy, the   shall conduct inquiries to identify persons who may be qualified to serve in the position and shall conduct further inquiries to determine those persons' qualifications.

(b) In conducting its inquiries the   shall follow any procedures established by the President in his letter of notification or by the Attorney General acting on behalf of the President.

(c) The   shall submit to the President and to the Attorney General, within   from the date it is notified by the President that he desires its assistance, a report listing the names of no more than five persons whom the   considers well qualified to serve in the position. In determining which persons are well qualified the   shall apply criteria established by the President or by the Attorney General acting on behalf of the President.

(d) The   shall conduct such additional inquiries and submit such additional reports as may be requested by the President.

(e) The   shall perform no function except when requested by the President to assist him in filling a vacancy.

 . 4.   Members. No member of the   shall be eligible to be nominated to fill a position as a   judicial officer with respect to which the  's assistance has been requested.

 . 5. Cooperation by Executive Agencies. The   is authorized to request, through its Chairman, from any Executive department or agency such information or assistance as the   deems necessary to carry out its functions under this  . Each department or agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish such information or assistance to  . The   also is authorized to request from any   agency such information and assistance as the   deems necessary, and to obtain such information and assistance to the extent permitted by   law.

 . 6. Travel Expenses; Administrative Support; Financing. (a) Members of the   shall serve without compensation. While engaged in the work of the  , members may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

(b) The Attorney General shall furnish to the   necessary staff, supplies, facilities and other administrative services.

(c) All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the  , to the extent permitted by law, shall be paid from funds available to the Attorney General.

 . 7.  . Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Attorney General in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 8. Termination of the Committee. The   shall terminate on.  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:02 p.m.,  ]

Note: The Executive order was not issued in the form of a   press release.
