Executive Order  —Environmental Impact Statements
 
 

RELATING TO PROTECTION AND

ENHANCEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY

By virtue of the authority vested in. me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , in furtherance of the purpose and policy of   of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.   et seq.),   of   (42 U.S.C.   et seq.), and Section. 309 of the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1857h-7), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Subsection (h) of Section 3 (relating to responsibilities of  ) of Executive Order No.  , as amended, is revised to read as follows:

"(h) Issue regulations to Federal agencies for the implementation of the procedural provisions of the Act (42 U.S.C. 4332(2) ). Such regulations shall be developed after consultation with affected agencies and after such public hearings as may be appropriate. They will be designed to make the environmental impact statement process more useful to decisionmakers and the public; and to reduce paperwork and the accumulation of extraneous background data, in order to emphasize the need to focus on real environmental issues and alternatives. They will require impact statements to be concise, clear, and to the point, and supported by evidence that agencies have made the necessary environmental analyses. The   shall include in its regulations procedures (1) for the early preparation of environmental impact statements, and (2) for the referral to the   of conflicts between agencies concerning the implementation of   of  , as amended, and Section 309 of the Clean Air Act, as amended, for the  's recommendation as to their prompt resolution.".

 . 2. The following new subsection is added to Section 2 (relating to responsibilities of Federal agencies) of Executive Order No.  , as amended:

"(g) In carrying out their responsibilities under the Act and this  , comply with the regulations issued by the   except where such compliance would be inconsistent with statutory requirements.".

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 1:45 p.m.,  ]
