Executive Order  — 
 
 

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO MOTOR GASOLINE END-USER ALLOCATION

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , including   of  , as amended (  93-159), and as President of  , notwithstanding the delegations to the Secretary of Energy in Executive Order   as amended by Executive Order  , it is hereby ordered:

SECTION 1-101. Each Governor is hereby delegated the authority to establish a system of end-user allocation for motor gasoline, subject to the terms and conditions as set forth below.

 . 1-102. When a Governor determines that his  , or any locality therein, is experiencing a shortage of motor gasoline available for retail distribution, such that the public health, safety, or welfare is endangered, he may require motor gasoline retail sales outlets in that   or locality to:

(a) Supply with gasoline (including gasohol) vehicles:

(1) which have a license plate number, the last digit of which is an even number, or where there are only letters on the license plate, the last letter of which is a letter in   of the alphabet (AM), only on even  ;

(2) which have a license plate number, the last digit of which is an odd number, or where there are only letters on the license plate, the last letter of which is a letter in   of the alphabet (N-Z), only on  ; and

(3) which have individually or as a class been designated by the Governor of that   as eligible to purchase gasoline on   in order to assure adequate supplies for such vehicles to protect the public health, safety, or welfare, or to assure necessary governmental services (including local,   and Federal).

(b) Require purchasers to purchase a specified minimum amount of gasoline (including gasohol), expressed in either gallons, fractions of gas tanks, or dollars, as determined by the Governor; and

(c) Supply gasoline at specified times of   or on specified days, as determined by the Governor to be necessary to reduce the length of or prevent lines of purchasers.

 . 1-103. A Governor may adopt such additional rules or regulations not inconsistent with   policies and regulations and subdelegate this authority as he deems necessary to implement and enforce the provisions of section 1-102 above.

 . 1-104. For purposes of this  , the term "Governor" includes the Governors of the 50 States, the Chief Executive Officer of  ,  , and the territories and possessions of  , other than the Panama Canal Zone.

 . 1-105. This   shall terminate, unless extended, at midnight on  . The Secretary of   may at any time revoke this delegation in whole or in part with respect to any  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:28 a.m.,  ]
