Executive Order  —President's Commission on the Holocaust
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to create, in accordance with the provisions of   (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on the establishment of a memorial to the victims of the Holocaust, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment and Membership.

1-101. There is established   on the Holocaust.

1-102. The   shall consist of not more than thirty-four members as follows:

(a) The President shall appoint twentyfour members of the   and shall designate one of these members to chair the  .

(b) The Speaker of   and the President of the   are each invited to designate five members of their respective   to serve as members of the  .

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall submit a report to the President and the Secretary of the   containing its recommendations with respect to the establishment and maintenance of an appropriate memorial to those who perished in the Holocaust.

1-202. The  's report shall examine the feasibility of obtaining funds for creation and maintenance of the   through contributions by the   people.

1-203. The   shall recommend appropriate ways for the nation to commemorate  , which the   has resolved shall be "Days of Remembrance of Victims of the Holocaust."

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. To the extent permitted by law, the Secretary of the   shall provide all necessary administrative services, facilities, support, and funds necessary for the performance of the  's functions.

1-302. Each member of the   who is not otherwise employed in the   may receive compensation for   such member is engaged in the work of the   at a   rate to be determined by the Secretary of the  . Such rate shall not exceed that payable pursuant to  .

1-303. Members of the   shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

1-304. The functions of the President under   which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of the   in accordance with guidelines and procedures prescribed by  .

1-4.  

1-401. The   shall submit its final report to the President and the Secretary of the   not   from the date of its first meeting.

1-402. The   shall terminate not   after submitting its final report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:50 p.m.,  ]
