Executive Order  —United States Holocaust Memorial Council
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), a committee to begin the implementation of the recommendations of   on the Holocaust for the establishment of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of the  

1-101. There is established   Holocaust Memorial Council. For the purpose of this  , the "Holocaust" is the systematic and  -sponsored extermination of six million   and some five million other peoples by the   and their collaborators during World War II.

1-102. The membership of   Holocaust Memorial Council shall consist of not more than 45 and not less than 25 members as follows:

(a) The President shall appoint   members of the   and shall designate one of these members to   and another member to serve as Vice Chairman. The Chairman may recommend to the President a member of the   to serve as Vice Chairman.

(b) The President of the   and the Speaker of   are each invited to designate five members of their respective   to serve as members of the  .

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall recommend to the President and to the Secretary of the   ways to implement the approved recommendations of   on the Holocaust: (a) the erection of a memorial museum, (b) the establishment of an educational and research foundation, and (c) the establishment of a  .

1-202. The   shall recommend specific site locations within the  ,   metropolitan area. Criteria for choosing architectural design should be included in the site recommendations.

1-203. The   shall propose a concept for the memorial museum, including general descriptions of the types and categories of exhibits to be displayed in the museum. Similarly, suggested functions and limitations for the educational and research foundation should be recommended.

1-204. The   shall recommend the size, composition, and names of distinguished   citizens qualified to serve on  . It shall advise on the specific duties and limitations of such a  .

1-205. The   shall also advise on the various ways to fund all of these recommendations. Funding proposals should provide that construction costs would be raised primarily from private contributions.

1-206. In addition, the   shall recommend appropriate ways for the   to commemorate "Days of Remembrance of Victims of the Holocaust."

1-207. The   shall submit a final report to the President and to the Secretary of the    .

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. The Secretary of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with administrative services, facilities, support, and funds necessary for the effective performance of the  's functions.

1-302. Members of the   who are not otherwise employed by   may receive compensation for   such member is engaged in the work of the   at a   rate to be determined by the Secretary of the  . Such rate shall not exceed the amount payable pursuant to  , as amended.

1-303. Members of the   shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of the   in accordance with guidelines and procedures prescribed by  .

1-402. The   shall serve as an interim body and shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:50 a.m.,  ]
