Executive Order  —Federal Compliance With Pollution Control Standards
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 22 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.  ), Section 313 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C.  ), Section 1447 of  , as amended by   (42 U.S.C. 300j-6), Section 118 of the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C.   (b)), Section 4 of the Noise Control Act of   (42 U.S.C.  ), Section 6001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended (42 U.S.C.  ), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and to ensure Federal compliance with applicable pollution control standards, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Applicability of Pollution Control Standards.

1-101. The head of each Executive agency is responsible for ensuring that all necessary actions are taken for the prevention, control, and abatement of environmental pollution with respect to Federal facilities and activities under the control of the agency.

1-102. The head of each Executive agency is responsible for compliance with applicable pollution control standards, including those established pursuant to, but not limited to, the following:

(a) Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.   et seq.).

(b) Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C.   et seq.).

(c) Public Health Service Act, as amended by   (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.).

(d) Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C.   et seq.).

(e) Noise Control Act of   (42 U.S.C.   et seq.).

(f) Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended (42 U.S.C.   et seq.).

(g) Radiation guidance pursuant to Section 274 (h) of the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.   (h); see also,   to   approved by the President on   and published at page   of   on  ).

(h)  , Research, and Sanctuaries Act of  , as amended (33 U.S.C.  ,  ,   and 16 U.S.C.  ).

(i)  , Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.).

1-103. "Applicable pollution control standards" means the same substantive, procedural, and other requirements that would apply to a private person.

1-2. Agency Coordination.

1-201. Each Executive agency shall cooperate with  , hereinafter referred to as the Administrator, and  , interstate, and local agencies in the prevention, control, and abatement of environmental pollution.

1-202. Each Executive agency shall consult with the Administrator and with  , interstate, and local agencies concerning the best techniques and methods available for the prevention, control, and abatement of environmental pollution.

1-3.   and Oversight.

1-301. The Administrator shall provide technical advice and assistance to Executive agencies in order to ensure their cost effective and timely compliance with applicable pollution control standards.

1-302. The administrator shall conduct such reviews and inspections as may be necessary to monitor compliance with applicable pollution control standards by Federal facilities and activities.

1-4. Pollution Control Plan.

1-401. Each Executive agency shall submit to the Director of  , through the Administrator, an   plan for the control of environmental pollution. The plan shall provide for any necessary improvement in the design, construction, management, operation, and maintenance of Federal facilities and activities, and shall include   cost estimates. The Administrator shall establish guidelines for developing such plans.

1-402. In preparing its plan, each Executive agency shall ensure that the plan provides for compliance with all applicable pollution control standards.

1-403. The plan shall be submitted in accordance with any other instructions that the Director of   may issue.

1-5. Funding.

1-501. The head of each Executive agency shall ensure that sufficient funds for compliance with applicable pollution control standards are requested in the agency budget.

1-502. The head of each Executive agency shall ensure that funds appropriated and apportioned for the prevention, control and abatement of environmental pollution are not used for any other purpose unless permitted by law and specifically approved by  .

I-6. Compliance With Pollution Controls.

1-601. Whenever the Administrator or the appropriate  , interstate, or local agency notifies an Executive agency that it is in violation of an applicable pollution control standard (see Section 1-102 of this  ), the Executive agency shall promptly consult with the notifying agency and provide for its approval a plan to achieve and maintain compliance with the applicable pollution control standard. This plan shall include an implementation schedule for coming into compliance as soon as practicable.

1-602. The Administrator shall make every effort to resolve conflicts regarding such violation between   agencies and, on request of any party, such conflicts between an Executive agency and a  , interstate, or a local agency. If the Administrator cannot resolve a conflict, the Administrator shall request the Director of   to resolve the conflict.

1-603. The Director of   shall consider unresolved conflicts at the request of the Administrator. The Director shall seek the  's technological judgment and determination with regard to the applicability of statutes and regulations.

1-604. These conflict resolution procedures are in addition to, not in lieu of, other procedures, including sanctions, for the enforcement of applicable pollution control standards.

1-605. Except as expressly provided by a Presidential exemption under this  , nothing in this  , nor any action or inaction under this  , shall be construed to revise or modify any applicable pollution control standard.

1-7. Limitation on Exemptions.

1-701. Exemptions from applicable pollution control standards may only be granted under statutes cited in Section 1-102(a) through 1-102(f) if the President makes the required appropriate statutory determination: that such exemption is necessary (a) in the interest of national security, or (b) in the paramount interest of  .

1-702. The head of an Executive agency may, from time to time, recommend to the President through the Director of  , that an activity or facility, or uses thereof, be exempt from an applicable pollution control standard.

1-703. The Administrator shall advise the President, through the Director of  , whether he agrees or disagrees with a recommendation for exemption and his reasons therefor.

1-704. The Director of   must advise the President within   of receipt of the Administrator's views.

1-8. General Provisions.

1-801. The head of each Executive agency that is responsible for the construction or operation of Federal facilities outside   shall ensure that such construction or operation complies with the environmental pollution control standards of general applicability in the host country or jurisdiction.

1-802. Executive  .   of  , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:40 p.m.,  ]
