Executive Order  —Suspension of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President of   by Section 10 of Public Law 96-343 and having determined that certain promotion limitations applicable to the   and   should continue to be suspended, and having determined that the new statutory conditions authorizing a continuation of certain existing disability separation practices in   should be effective, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-101. For the period beginning on   and ending on  , the application of the following provisions of Title 10 of the United States Code is suspended.

(a) Section 5707(c), restricting the number of   and   officers who may be recommended for promotion from below the appropriate promotion zone.

(b) Section 5751 (a), requiring   officers serving in the grade of brigadier general to have completed   service in grade to be eligible for consideration for promotion to major general.

(c) Section 5751(b), requiring certain officers to have completed specific   of service in grade before being eligible for consideration for promotion to the next higher grade.

(d) Section 5751(e), precluding officers designated for limited duty who are below the appropriate promotion zone from being considered for promotion.

(e) Section 5770, requiring certain officers to have had   or foreign service in grade before they may be promoted.

1-102. For the period beginning on   and ending on  , the conditions provided for by the following provisions of Title 10 of the United States Code are effective:

(a) Section 1201 (3) (B) (iv), authorizing the retirement for certain disabilities of at least 30 percent which were incurred in line of duty.

(b) Section 1203(4) (A) (iii), authorizing separation for certain disabilities of less than 30 percent which were incurred in line of duty.

(c) Section 1203 (4) (c) (iii), authorizing separation for certain disabilities of at least 30 percent which were not incurred in line of duty.

1-103. Executive  .   is hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:51 a.m.,  ]

Note: The Executive order was released on  .
