Executive Order  —  for the District of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to create in accord with   (5 U.S.C. App. I) an advisory committee on judicial nominations for  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of the  .

1-101. There is established   for the District of  .

1-102. The   shall have seven members appointed by the President. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members.

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall begin functioning when the President or his designee notifies the Chairman that the President desires the  's assistance in identifying persons qualified to fill a vacancy on   District Court for  .

1-202. Upon receiving such notification, the   shall:

(a) give public notice of the vacancy, inviting suggestions as to potential nominees;

(b) conduct inquiries to identify potential nominees;

(c) conduct inquiries to identify, among the potential nominees, persons who are well qualified to serve as   District Judge; and

(d) report to the President, within the time specified in the notification, the results of its activities, including a list of the persons whom the   considers to be best qualified to fill the vacancy.

1-203. In evaluating potential nominees, the   shall use standards provided by the Attorney General.

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. Members of the   shall serve without compensation. While engaged in the work of the  , members may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-302. The Attorney General shall furnish to the   necessary administrative support.

1-303. All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the  , to the extent permitted by law, shall be paid from funds available to the Attorney General.

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. A person who is a member of the   shall not, during the period of membership and for   after that period, be ,considered by the   as a potential nominee.

1-402. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Attorney General in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

1-403. The   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended by the President.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 2:37 p.m.,  ]
