Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, in accordance with   (5 U.S.C. App. I), and in order to improve the management effectiveness of Executive agencies, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of the  .

1-101. There is hereby established the President's  .

1-102. The   shall be Co-chaired by the Director of   and the Director of  . The  's membership shall consist of representatives from   agencies and from the non-Federal sector; such as business, industry, organized labor, foundations, universities, and   and local governments. The members shall be appointed by the President.

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall advise the President on significant and critical management problems and issues affecting   agencies and Government programs.

1-202. The   shall work cooperatively with  , senior program management and administrative officials, and   to provide advice and guidance on specific management improvement projects involving one or more Executive agencies.

1-203. Where feasible, the   shall advise the   agencies in the development of management systems or management techniques to improve the effectiveness and responsiveness of Federal programs.

1-204. The   shall advise the   agencies of solutions to critical management problems, as well as the constraints on management effectiveness.

1-205. In developing its recommendations, the   shall utilize the experience of the public and private sectors. The   shall also identify and facilitate the application to Federal programs of appropriate successful systems and techniques which have been used elsewhere in public and private sectors.

1-206. The   shall report to the President on the performance of the  's functions.

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. The Director of   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with administrative and staff services, support and facilities as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

1-302. Each member of the  , who is not otherwise a full-time employee of  , shall receive no compensation from   by virtue of their service on the  , but all members may receive the transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Director of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established 'by  .

1-402. The   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:15 p.m.,  ]
