1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fair Agricultural Reporting Method Act
or the
FARM Act
.
2.
Exemptions from certain notice requirements and penalties
Section 103 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9603
) is amended by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
(e)
Applicability to registered pesticide products and air emissions from animal waste at farms
(1)
In general
This section shall not apply to—
(A)
the application of a pesticide product registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (
7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.) or the handling and storage of such a pesticide product by an agricultural producer; or
(B)
air emissions from animal waste (including decomposing animal waste) at a farm.
(2)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Animal waste
(i)
In general
The term
animal waste
means feces, urine, or other excrement, digestive emission, urea, or similar substances emitted by animals (including any form of livestock, poultry, or fish).
(ii)
Inclusions
The term
animal waste
includes animal waste that is mixed or commingled with bedding, compost, feed, soil, or any other material typically found with such waste.
(B)
Farm
The term
farm
means a site or area (including associated structures) that—
(i)
is used for—
(I)
the production of a crop; or
(II)
the raising or selling of animals (including any form of livestock, poultry, or fish); and
(ii)
under normal conditions, produces during a farm year any agricultural products with a total value equal to not less than $1,000.
.
3.
Application
Nothing in this Act or an amendment made by this Act affects, or supersedes or modifies the responsibility or authority of any Federal official or employee to comply with or enforce, any requirement under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.), other than the hazardous substance notification requirements under section 103 of that Act (
42 U.S.C. 9603
) with respect to air emissions from animal waste at farms.
