1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Eliminate From Regulators Opportunities to Nationalize The Internet In Every Respect Act
or the
E-FRONTIER Act
.
2.
Prohibition against the President or a Federal agency constructing, operating, or offering services on broadband networks
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
agency
has the meaning given the term in section 902 of title 5, United States Code;
(2)
the term
broadband network
—
(A)
means a communications network, the primary purpose of which is to provide consumers with the capability to transmit data to and receive data from all or substantially all internet endpoints; and
(B)
includes a next-generation mobile broadband network;
(3)
the term
nationwide public safety broad­band network
has the meaning given the term in section 6001 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1401
); and
(4)
the term
President
means the President of the United States.
(b)
Prohibition
Neither the President nor an agency may construct, operate, or offer wholesale or retail service on a broadband network unless a duly enacted Act of Congress signed into law by the President provides the President or the agency, as applicable, with that authority.
(c)
Rules of construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to—
(1)
limit, restrict, or circumvent in any way—
(A)
the implementation of the nationwide public safety broadband network; or
(B)
any rules implementing the nationwide public safety broadband network under title VI of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.); or
(2)
affect the authority of the President under section 706 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 606
).
3.
Report on vulnerabilities of United States broadband networks
(a)
Definition
In this section, the term
broad­band network
has the meaning given the term in section 2(a).
(b)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study and submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report, which shall include—
(1)
a discussion and analysis of—
(A)
potential threats facing broadband networks in the United States from—
(i)
the Government of the People’s Republic of China;
(ii)
the Government of Iran;
(iii)
the Government of the Russian Federation; and
(iv)
any other potential foreign adversary of the United States; and
(B)
the risks associated with using foreign equipment and services in broadband networks in the United States; and
(2)
recommendations, if any, regarding how service providers with respect to broadband networks in the United States can reduce the vulnerabilities of those networks to foreign threats.
