1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting Family-Focused Residential Treatment Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Family-focused residential treatment program
The term
family-focused residential treatment program
means a trauma-informed residential program primarily for substance use disorder treatment for pregnant and postpartum women and parents and guardians that allows children to reside with such women or their parents or guardians during treatment to the extent appropriate and applicable.
(2)
Medicaid program
The term
Medicaid program
means the program established under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(4)
Title IV–E program
The term
title IV–E program
means the program for foster care, prevention, and permanency established under part E of title IV of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 670
et seq.).
3.
Guidance on family-focused residential treatment programs
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services administering substance use disorder or child welfare programs, shall develop and issue guidance to States identifying opportunities to support family-focused residential treatment programs for the provision of substance use disorder treatment. Before issuing such guidance, the Secretary shall solicit input from representatives of States, health care providers with expertise in addiction medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, neonatology, child trauma, and child development, recipients of family-focused treatment services, and other relevant stakeholders.
(b)
Additional requirements
The guidance required under subsection (a) shall include descriptions of the following:
(1)
Existing opportunities and flexibilities under the Medicaid program, including under waivers authorized under section 1115 or 1915 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315
, 1396n), for States to receive Federal Medicaid funding for the provision of substance use disorder treatment for pregnant and postpartum women and parents and guardians and, to the extent applicable, their children, in family-focused residential treatment programs.
(2)
How States can employ and coordinate funding provided under the Medicaid program, the title IV-E program, and other programs administered by the Secretary to support the provision of treatment and services provided by a family-focused residential treatment facility such as substance use disorder treatment and services, including medication-assisted treatment, family, group, and individual counseling, case management, parenting education and skills development, the provision, assessment, or coordination of care and services for children, including necessary assessments and appropriate interventions, non-emergency transportation for necessary care provided at or away from a program site, transitional services and supports for families leaving treatment, and other services.
(3)
How States can employ and coordinate funding provided under the Medicaid program and the title IV–E program (including as amended by the Family First Prevention Services Act enacted under title VII of division E of
Public Law 115–123
, and particularly with respect to the authority under subsections (a)(2)(C) and (j) of section 472 and section 474(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 672
, 674(a)(1)) (as amended by section 50712 of
Public Law 115–123
) to provide foster care maintenance payments for a child placed with a parent who is receiving treatment in a licensed residential family-based treatment facility for a substance use disorder) to support placing children with their parents in family-focused residential treatment programs.
