1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018
.
2.
Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents
(a)
Divisions
This Act is organized into four divisions as follows:
(1)
Division A—Department of Defense Authorizations.
(2)
Division B—Military Construction Authorizations.
(3)
Division C—Department of Energy National Security Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
(4)
Division D—Funding Tables.
(b)
Table of contents
The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.
DIVISION A—Department of Defense Authorizations
TITLE I—Procurement
Subtitle A—Authorization of appropriations
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Army programs
Sec. 111. Transfer of excess High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicles to foreign countries.
Sec. 112. Limitation on availability of funds for Army Air-Land Mobile Tactical Communications and
Data Network, including Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T).
Subtitle C—Navy programs
Sec. 121. Multiyear procurement authority for Virginia class submarine program.
Sec. 122. Arleigh Burke class destroyers.
Sec. 123. Multiyear procurement authority for V–22 joint aircraft program.
Sec. 124. Design and construction of amphibious ship replacement designated LX(R) or amphibious
transport dock designated LPD–30.
Sec. 125. Modification of cost limitation baseline for CVN–78 class aircraft carrier program.
Sec. 126. Extension of limitation on use of sole-source shipbuilding contracts for certain vessels.
Subtitle D—Air Force Programs
Sec. 131. Inventory requirement for Air Force fighter aircraft.
Sec. 132. Comptroller General review of total force integration initiatives for reserve component
rescue squadrons.
Subtitle E—Defense-wide, Joint, and multiservice matters
Sec. 141. F–35 economic order quantity contracting authority.
Sec. 142. Authority for Explosive Ordnance Disposal units to acquire new or emerging technologies
and capabilities.
TITLE II—Research, development, test, and evaluation
Subtitle A—Authorization of appropriations
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Program requirements, restrictions, and limitations
Sec. 211. Mechanisms for expedited access to technical talent and expertise at academic
institutions to support Department of Defense missions.
Sec. 212. Codification and enhancement of authorities to provide funds for defense laboratories for
research and development of technologies for military missions.
Sec. 213. Modification of laboratory quality enhancement program.
Sec. 214. Prizes for advanced technology achievements.
Sec. 215. Expansion of definition of competitive procedures to include competitive selection for
award of research and development proposals.
Sec. 216. Inclusion of modeling and simulation in test and evaluation activities for purposes of
planning and budget certification.
Sec. 217. Differentiation of research and development activities from service activities.
Sec. 218. Designation of additional Department of Defense science and technology reinvention
laboratories.
Sec. 219. Department of Defense directed energy weapon system prototyping and demonstration
program.
Sec. 220. Authority for the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering to promote
innovation in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 221. Limitation on availability of funds for F–35 Joint Strike Fighter Follow-On
Modernization.
Sec. 222. Improvement of update process for populating mission data files used in advanced combat
aircraft.
Subtitle C—Reports and other matters
Sec. 231. Competitive acquisition plan for low probability of detection data link networks.
Sec. 232. Clarification of selection dates for pilot program for the enhancement of the research,
development, test, and evaluation centers of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 233. Requirement for a plan to build a prototype for a new ground combat vehicle for the Army.
Sec. 234. Plan for successfully fielding the Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command
System.
Sec. 235. Sense of Congress on hypersonic weapons.
TITLE III—Operation and Maintenance
Subtitle A—Authorization of appropriations
Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Logistics and sustainment
Sec. 311. Sentinel Landscapes Partnership.
Sec. 312. Increased percentage of sustainment funds authorized for realignment to restoration and
modernization at each installation.
Subtitle C—Reports
Sec. 321. Plan for modernized, dedicated Department of the Navy adversary air training enterprise.
Subtitle D—Other matters
Sec. 331. Defense Siting Clearinghouse.
Sec. 332. Temporary installation reutilization authority for arsenals, depots, and plants.
Sec. 333. Pilot program for operation and maintenance budget presentation.
Sec. 334. Servicewomen's commemorative partnerships.
Sec. 335. Authority for agreements to reimburse States for costs of suppressing wildfires on State
lands caused by Department of Defense activities under leases and other
grants of access to State lands.
Sec. 336. Repurposing and reuse of surplus Army firearms.
Sec. 337. Department of the Navy marksmanship awards.
Subtitle E—Energy and Environment
Sec. 341. Authority to carry out environmental restoration activities at National Guard and Reserve
locations.
Sec. 342. Special considerations for energy performance goals.
Sec. 343. Centers for Disease Control study on health implications of per- and polyfluoroalkyl
substances contamination in drinking water.
Sec. 344. Environmental oversight and remediation at Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage Facility.
TITLE IV—Military Personnel Authorizations
Subtitle A—Active Forces
Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Subtitle B—Reserve Forces
Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2018 limitation on number of non-dual status technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active duty for operational
support.
Sec. 416. Number of members of the National Guard on full-time duty in support of the reserves
within the National Guard Bureau.
Subtitle C—Authorization of Appropriations
Sec. 421. Military personnel.
TITLE V—Military Personnel Policy
Subtitle A—Officer Personnel Policy
Sec. 501. Clarification of baselines for authorized numbers of general and flag officers on active
duty and in joint duty assignments.
Sec. 502. Authority of promotion boards to recommend officers of particular merit be placed at the
top of the promotion list.
Sec. 503. Clarification to exception for removal of officers from list of officers recommended for
promotion after 18 months without appointment.
Sec. 504. Flexibility in promotion of officers to positions of Staff Judge Advocate to the
Commandant of the Marine Corps and Deputy Judge Advocate General of the
Navy.
Sec. 505. Repeal of requirement for specification of number of officers who may be recommended for
early retirement by a Selective Early Retirement Board.
Sec. 506. Extension of service-in-grade waiver authority for voluntary retirement of certain
general and flag officers for purposes of enhanced flexibility in officer
personnel management.
Sec. 507. Inclusion of Principal Military Deputy to the Assistant Secretary of the Army for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics among officers subject to repeal of
statutory specification of general officer grade.
Sec. 508. Clarification of effect of repeal of statutory specification of general or flag officer
grade for various positions in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 509. Grandfathering of retired grade of Assistant Judge Advocates General of the Navy as of
repeal of statutory specification of general and flag officers grades in
the Armed Forces.
Sec. 510. Service credit for cyberspace experience or advanced education upon original appointment
as a commissioned officer.
Sec. 510A. Authority for officers to opt-out of promotion board consideration.
Sec. 510B. Reauthorization of authority to order retired members to active duty in high-demand,
low-density assignments.
Subtitle B—Reserve Component Management
Sec. 511. Consolidation of authorities to order members of the reserve components of the Armed
Forces to perform duty.
Sec. 512. Establishment of Office of Complex Investigations within the National Guard Bureau.
Subtitle C—General Service Authorities
Sec. 516. Report on policies for regular and reserve officer career management.
Sec. 517. Responsibility of Chiefs of Staff of the Armed Forces for standards and qualifications
for military specialties within the Armed Forces.
Sec. 518. Confidential review of characterization of terms of discharge of members of the Armed
Forces who are survivors of sexual assault.
Sec. 519. Improvements to certain authorities and procedures of discharge review boards.
Sec. 520. Public availability of information related to disposition of claims regarding discharge
or release of members of the Armed Forces when the claims involve sexual
assault.
Subtitle D—Military Justice Matters
Sec. 521. Revision to Manual for Courts-Martial with respect to dissemination of visual depictions
of private areas or sexually explicit conduct without the consent of the
person depicted.
Sec. 522. Technical and conforming amendments in connection with reform of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice.
Sec. 523. Priority of review by Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces of decisions of Courts of
Criminal Appeals on petitions for enforcement of victims' rights.
Sec. 524. Assistance of defense counsel in additional post-trial matters for accused convicted by
court-martial.
Sec. 525. Enumeration of additional limitations on acceptance of plea agreements by military judges
of general or special courts-martial.
Sec. 526. Additional proceedings by Courts of Criminal Appeals by order of United States Court of
Appeals for the Armed Forces.
Sec. 527. Clarification of applicability and effective dates for statute of limitations amendments
in connection with Uniform Code of Military Justice Reform.
Sec. 528. Modification of year of initial review by Military Justice Review Panel of Uniform Code
of Military Justice reform amendments.
Sec. 529. Clarification of applicability of certain provisions of law to civilian judges of the
United States Court of Military Commission Review.
Sec. 530. Enhancement of effective prosecution and defense in courts-martial and related matters.
Sec. 531. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces jurisdiction to review interlocutory appeals of
decisions on certain petitions for writs of mandamus.
Sec. 532. Punitive article on wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual images or
visual images of sexually explicit conduct under the Uniform Code of
Military Justice.
Subtitle E—Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience
Sec. 541. Ready, Relevant Learning initiative of the Navy.
Sec. 542. Element in preseparation counseling for members of the Armed Forces on assistance and
support services for caregivers of certain veterans through the Department
of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 543. Discharge in the Selected Reserve of the commissioned service obligation of military
service academy graduates who participate in professional athletics.
Sec. 544. Pilot programs on appointment in the excepted service in the Department of Defense of
physically disqualified former cadets and midshipmen.
Sec. 545. Limitation on availability of funds for attendance of Air Force enlisted personnel at Air
Force officer professional military education in-residence courses.
Sec. 546. Pilot program on integration of Department of Defense and non-Federal efforts for
civilian employment of members of the Armed Forces following transition
from active duty to civilian life.
Sec. 547. Two-year extension of suicide prevention and resilience program for the National Guard
and Reserves.
Sec. 548. Sexual assault prevention and response training for all individuals enlisted in the Armed
Forces under a delayed entry program.
Sec. 549. Use of assistance under Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program for
non-traditional education to develop cybersecurity and computer coding
skills.
Subtitle F—Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness Matters
PART I—Defense Dependents' Education Matters
Sec. 551. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 552. Continuation of authority to assist local educational agencies that benefit dependents of
members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 553. One-year extension of authorities relating to the transition and support of military
dependent students to local educational agencies.
PART II—Military Family Readiness Matters
Sec. 556. Housing treatment for certain members of the Armed Forces, and their spouses and other
dependents, undergoing a permanent change of station within the United
States.
Sec. 557. Direct hire authority for Department of Defense for childcare services providers for
Department child development centers.
Sec. 558. Report on expanding and contracting for childcare services of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 559. Report on review of General Schedule pay grades of childcare services providers of the
Department of Defense.
Sec. 560. Pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework facilities on military
installations outside the United States.
Sec. 561. Report on mechanisms to facilitate the obtaining by military spouses of professional
licenses or credentials in other States.
Sec. 562. Additional military childcare matters.
Subtitle G—Decorations and Awards
Sec. 571. Authority of Secretary of the Army to award the Personnel Protection Equipment award of
the Army to former members of the Army.
Sec. 572. Authorization for award of Distinguished Service Cross to Specialist Frank M. Crary for
acts of valor in Vietnam.
Subtitle H—Other Matters
Sec. 581. Modification of submittal date of Comptroller General of the United States report on
integrity of the Department of Defense whistleblower program.
Sec. 582. Report to Congress on accompanied and unaccompanied tours of duty in remote locations
with high family support costs.
TITLE VI—Compensation and Other Personnel Benefits
Subtitle A—Pay and Allowances
Sec. 601. Fiscal year 2018 increase in military basic pay.
Sec. 602. Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates of basic allowance for
housing under certain circumstances.
Sec. 603. Adjustment to basic allowance for housing at with dependents rate of certain members of
the uniformed services.
Sec. 604. Modification of authority of President to determine alternative pay adjustment in annual
basic pay of members of the uniformed services.
Subtitle B—Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays
Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay authorities for health care
professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 consolidated special pay,
incentive pay, and bonus authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of other title 37 bonuses and
special pays.
Sec. 616. Aviation bonus matters.
Sec. 617. Special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities for enlisted members who pilot
remotely piloted aircraft.
Sec. 618. Technical and conforming amendments relating to 2008 consolidation of special pay
authorities.
Subtitle C—Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits
PART I—Amendments in Connection with Retired Pay Reform
Sec. 631. Adjustments to Survivor Benefit Plan for members electing lump sum payments of retired
pay under the modernized retirement system for members of the uniformed
services.
Sec. 632. Technical correction regarding election to participate in modernized retirement system
for reserve component members experiencing a break in service.
PART II—Other Matters
Sec. 636. Authority for the Secretaries of the military departments to provide for care of remains
of those who die on active duty and are interred in a foreign cemetery.
Sec. 637. Technical corrections to use of member's current pay grade and years of service in a
division of property involving disposable retired pay.
Sec. 638. Permanent extension and cost-of-living adjustments of special survivor indemnity
allowances under the Survivor Benefit Plan.
Subtitle D—Other Matters
Sec. 651. Construction of domestic source requirement for footwear furnished to enlisted members of
the Armed Forces on initial entry into the Armed Forces.
Sec. 652. Inclusion of Department of Agriculture in Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 653. Review and update of regulations governing debt collectors interactions with unit
commanders.
TITLE VII—Health Care Provisions
Subtitle A—TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits
Sec. 701. TRICARE Advantage demonstration program.
Sec. 702. Continued access to medical care at facilities of the uniformed services for certain
members of the reserve components.
Sec. 703. Modification of eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select and TRICARE Retired Reserve of
certain members of the reserve components.
Sec. 704. Expedited evaluation and treatment for prenatal surgery under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 705. Specification that individuals under the age of 21 are eligible for hospice care services
under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 706. Modifications of cost-sharing requirements for the TRICARE Pharmacy Benefits Program and
treatment of certain pharmaceutical agents.
Sec. 707. Consolidation of cost-sharing requirements under TRICARE Select and TRICARE Prime.
Sec. 708. TRICARE technical amendments.
Sec. 709. Contraception coverage parity under the TRICARE program.
Subtitle B—Health Care Administration
Sec. 721. Modification of priority for evaluation and treatment of individuals at military
treatment facilities.
Sec. 722. Selection of directors of military treatment facilities and tours of duty of such
directors.
Sec. 723. Clarification of administration of military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 724. Modification of execution of TRICARE contracting responsibilities.
Sec. 725. Pilot program on establishment of integrated health care delivery systems.
Subtitle C—Reports and Other Matters
Sec. 731. Extension of authority for Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund.
Sec. 732. Additional emergency uses for medical products to reduce deaths and severity of injuries
caused by agents of war.
Sec. 733. Prohibition on conduct of certain medical research and development projects.
Sec. 734. Modification of determination of average wait times at urgent care clinics and pharmacies
at military medical treatment facilities under pilot program.
Sec. 735. Report on plan to improve pediatric care and related services for children of members of
the Armed Forces.
Sec. 736. Inclusion of gambling disorder in health assessments and related research efforts of the
Department of Defense.
TITLE VIII—Acquisition policy, acquisition management, and related matters
Subtitle A—Acquisition policy and management
Sec. 801. Repeal of temporary suspension of public-private competitions for conversion of
Department of Defense functions to performance by contractors.
Sec. 802. Technical and conforming amendments related to program management provisions.
Sec. 803. Should-cost management.
Sec. 804. Clarification of purpose of Defense acquisition.
Sec. 805. Defense policy advisory committee on technology.
Sec. 806. Report on extension of development, acquisition, and sustainment authorities of the
military departments to the United States Special Operations Command.
Subtitle B—Amendments to general contracting authorities, procedures, and limitations
Sec. 811. Waiver authority for purposes of expanding competition.
Sec. 812. Increased simplified acquisition threshold applicable to Department of Defense
procurements.
Sec. 813. Increased threshold for cost or pricing data and truth in negotiations requirements.
Sec. 814. Contract authority for advanced development of initial or additional prototype units.
Sec. 815. Treatment of independent research and development costs on certain contracts.
Sec. 816. Non-traditional contractor definition.
Sec. 817. Repeal of domestic source restriction related to wearable electronics.
Sec. 818. Use of outcome-based and performance-based requirements for services contracts.
Sec. 819. Pilot program for longer term multiyear service contracts.
Sec. 820. Identification of commercial services.
Sec. 821. Government Accountability Office bid protest reforms.
Sec. 822. Enhanced post-award debriefing rights.
Sec. 823. Limitation on unilateral definitization.
Sec. 824. Restriction on use of reverse auctions and lowest price technically acceptable
contracting methods for safety equipment.
Sec. 825. Use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection process.
Sec. 826. Middle tier of acquisition for rapid prototype and rapid fielding.
Sec. 827. Elimination of cost underruns as factor in calculation of penalties for cost overruns.
Sec. 828. Contract closeout authority.
Sec. 829. Service contracts of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 830. Department of Defense contractor workplace safety and accountability.
Sec. 831. Department of Defense promotion of contractor compliance with existing law.
Subtitle C—Provisions relating to major defense acquisition programs
Sec. 835. Revisions to definition of major defense acquisition program.
Sec. 836. Prohibition on use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection process for
major defense acquisition programs.
Subtitle D—Provisions related to acquisition workforce
Sec. 841. Training in commercial items procurement.
Sec. 842. Modification of definition of acquisition workforce to include personnel engaged in the
acquisition or development of cybersecurity systems.
Sec. 843. Training and support for programs pursuing agile acquisition methods.
Sec. 844. Credits to Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund.
Subtitle E—Provisions related to commercial items
Sec. 851. Modification to definition of commercial items.
Sec. 852. Revision to definition of commercial item.
Sec. 853. Commercial item determinations.
Sec. 854. Preference for acquisition of commercial items.
Sec. 855. Inapplicable laws and regulations.
Subtitle F—Industrial base matters
Sec. 861. Review regarding applicability of foreign ownership, control, or influence requirements
of National Security Industrial Program to national technology and
industrial base companies.
Sec. 862. Pilot program on strengthening manufacturing in defense industrial base.
Sec. 863. Sunset of certain provisions relating to the industrial base.
Subtitle G—International contracting matters
Sec. 865. Procurement exception relating to agreements with foreign governments.
Sec. 866. Applicability of cost and pricing data certification requirements.
Sec. 867. Enhancing program licensing.
Subtitle H—Other transactions
Sec. 871. Other transaction authority.
Sec. 872. Education and training for transactions other than contracts and grants.
Sec. 873. Preference for use of other transactions and experimental authority.
Sec. 874. Methods for entering into research agreements.
Subtitle I—Development and acquisition of software intensive and digital products and services
Sec. 881. Rights in technical data.
Sec. 882. Defense Innovation Board analysis of software acquisition regulations.
Sec. 883. Pilot to tailor software-intensive major programs to use agile methods.
Sec. 884. Review and realignment of defense business systems to emphasize agile methods.
Sec. 885. Software development pilot using agile best practices.
Sec. 886. Use of open source software.
Subtitle J—Other matters
Sec. 891. Improved transparency and oversight over Department of Defense research, development,
test, and evaluation efforts and procurement activities related to medical
research.
Sec. 892. Rights in technical data related to medical research.
Sec. 893. Oversight, audit, and certification from the Defense Contract Audit Agency for
procurement activities related to medical research.
Sec. 894. Requirements for Defense Contract Audit Agency report.
Sec. 895. Prototype projects to digitize defense acquisition regulations, policies, and guidance,
and empower user tailoring of acquisition process.
Sec. 896. Pilot program for adoption of acquisition strategy for Defense Base Act insurance.
Sec. 897. Phase III awards.
Sec. 898. Pilot program for streamlined technology transition from the SBIR and STTR programs of
the Department of Defense.
Sec. 899. Annual report on limitation of subcontractor intellectual property rights.
Sec. 899A. Extension from 20 to 30 years of maximum total period for Department of Defense
contracts for storage, handling, or distribution of liquid fuels and
natural gas.
Sec. 899B. Exception for Department of Defense contracts from requirement that business operations
conducted under government contracts accept and dispense $1 coins.
Sec. 899C. Investing in rural small businesses.
TITLE IX—Department of Defense Organization and Management
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters
Sec. 901. Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 902. Realignment of responsibilities, duties, and powers of Chief Information Officer of the
Department of Defense.
Sec. 903. Clarification of authority of Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
with respect to service acquisition programs for which the service
acquisition executive is the milestone decision authority.
Sec. 904. Executive Schedule matters relating to Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment.
Sec. 905. Technical amendment.
Sec. 906. Redesignation of Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness as Under
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Health.
Sec. 907. Qualifications for appointment and additional duties and powers of certain officials
within the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
Sec. 908. Five-year period of relief from active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular
component of the Armed Forces for appointment to Under Secretary of
Defense positions.
Sec. 909. Redesignation of Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense as Deputy Under
Secretaries of Defense and related matters.
Sec. 910. Reduction of number and elimination of specific designations of Assistant Secretaries of
Defense.
Sec. 911. Limitation on maximum number of Deputy Assistant Secretaries of Defense.
Sec. 912. Modification of definition of OSD personnel for purposes of limitation on number of
Office of Secretary of Defense personnel.
Subtitle B—Organization of Other Department of Defense Offices and Elements
Sec. 921. Reduction in authorized number of Assistant Secretaries of the military departments.
Sec. 922. Qualifications for appointment of Assistant Secretaries of the military departments for
financial management.
Subtitle C—Organization and Management of the Department of Defense Generally
Sec. 931. Reduction in limitation on number of Department of Defense SES positions.
Sec. 932. Manner of carrying out reductions in major Department of Defense headquarters activities.
Sec. 933. Certifications on cost savings achieved by reductions in major Department of Defense
headquarters activities.
Sec. 934. Direct hire authority for the Department of Defense for personnel to assist in business
transformation and management innovation.
Sec. 935. Data analytics capability for support of enhanced oversight and management of the Defense
Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities.
Sec. 936. Enhanced use of data analytics to improve acquisition program outcomes.
Sec. 937. Pilot programs on data integration strategies for the Department of Defense.
Sec. 938. Background and security investigations for Department of Defense personnel.
Subtitle D—Other Matters
Sec. 951. Transfer of lead of Guam Oversight Council from the Deputy Secretary of Defense to the
Secretary of the Navy.
Sec. 952. Corrosion control and prevention executives matters.
TITLE X—General Provisions
Subtitle A—Financial Matters
Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Calculations for payments into Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund using
single level percentage of basic pay determined on Armed Force-wide rather
than Armed Forces-wide basis.
Sec. 1003. Certifications on audit readiness of the Department of Defense and the military
departments, Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the
Department of Defense.
Sec. 1004. Failure to obtain audit opinion on fiscal year full financial statements of the
Department of Defense.
Sec. 1005. Improper payment matters.
Sec. 1006. Financial operations dashboard for the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1007. Comptroller General of the United States recommendations on audit capabilities and
infrastructure and related matters.
Subtitle B—Counterdrug Activities
Sec. 1011. Extension and modification of authority to support a unified counterdrug and
counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Subtitle C—Naval Vessels and Shipyards
Sec. 1016. Policy of the United States on minimum number of battle force ships.
Sec. 1017. Operational readiness of Littoral Combat Ships on extended deployment.
Sec. 1018. Authority to purchase used vessels to recapitalize the Ready Reserve Force and the
Military Sealift Command surge fleet.
Sec. 1019. Surveying ships.
Sec. 1020. Pilot program on funding for national defense sealift vessels.
Subtitle D—Counterterrorism
Sec. 1031. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of individuals detained
at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United
States.
Sec. 1032. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities in the United
States to house detainees transferred from United States Naval Station,
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1033. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release to certain countries of
individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1034. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for realignment of forces at or closure of
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1035. Authority to transfer individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, to the United States temporarily for emergency or critical
medical treatment.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
Sec. 1041. Matters relating to the submittal of future-years defense programs.
Sec. 1042. Department of Defense integration of information operations and cyber-enabled
information operations.
Sec. 1043. Prohibition on lobbying activities with respect to the Department of Defense by certain
officers of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department
within two years of separation from military service or employment with
the Department.
Sec. 1044. Definition of
unmanned aerial vehicle
for purposes of title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 1045. Technical amendment relating to management of military technicians.
Sec. 1046. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for retirement of legacy maritime mine
countermeasure platforms.
Sec. 1047. Sense of Congress on the basing of KC–46A aircraft outside the continental United
States.
Sec. 1048. Authorization to procure up to six polar-class icebreakers.
Subtitle F—Studies and Reports
Sec. 1061. Assessment of global force posture.
Sec. 1062. Army modernization strategy.
Sec. 1063. Report on Army plan to improve operational unit readiness by reducing number of
non-deployable soldiers assigned to operational units.
Sec. 1064. Efforts to combat physiological episodes on certain Navy aircraft.
Sec. 1065. Studies on aircraft inventories for the Air Force.
Sec. 1066. Plan and recommendations for interagency vetting of foreign investments with potential
impacts on national defense and national security.
Sec. 1067. Report on authorities for the employment, use, and status of National Guard and Reserve
technicians.
Sec. 1068. Conforming repeals and technical amendments in connection with reports of the Department
of Defense whose submittal to Congress has previously been terminated by
law.
Sec. 1069. Annual reports on approval of employment or compensation of retired general or flag
officers by foreign governments for Emoluments Clause purposes.
Sec. 1070. Annual report on civilian casualties in connection with United States military
operations.
Sec. 1071. Report on large-scale, joint exercises involving the air and land domains.
Sec. 1072. Department of Defense review of Navy capabilities in the Arctic region.
Sec. 1073. Business case analysis on establishment of active duty association and additional
primary aircraft authorizations for the 168th Air Refueling Wing.
Sec. 1074. Report on Navy capacity to increase production of anti-submarine warfare and search and
rescue rotary wing aircraft in light of increase in the size of the
surface fleet to 355 ships.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 1081. Protection against misuse of Naval Special Warfare Command insignia.
Sec. 1082. Collaborations between the Armed Forces and certain non-Federal entities on support of
Armed Forces missions abroad.
Sec. 1083. Federal charter for Spirit of America.
Sec. 1084. Reconsideration of claims for disability compensation for veterans who were the subjects
of mustard gas or lewisite experiments during World War II.
Sec. 1085. Prize competition to identify root cause of physiological episodes on Navy, Marine
Corps, and Air Force training and operational aircraft.
Sec. 1086. Exception to the interdepartmental waiver doctrine for cleanup of vehicle crashes.
Sec. 1087. Transfer of surplus firearms to Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and
Firearms Safety.
TITLE XI—Civilian Personnel Matters
Subtitle A—Department of Defense Matters
Sec. 1101. Pilot program on enhanced personnel management system for cybersecurity and legal
professionals in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1102. Inclusion of Strategic Capabilities Office and Defense Innovation Unit Experimental of
the Department of Defense in personnel management authority to attract
experts in science and engineering.
Sec. 1103. Permanent authority for demonstration projects relating to acquisition personnel
management policies and procedures.
Sec. 1104. Establishment of senior scientific technical managers at Major Range and Test Facility
Base facilities and Defense Test Resource Management Center.
Sec. 1105. Extension of temporary direct hire authority for domestic defense industrial base
facilities and the major range and test facilities base.
Sec. 1106. Direct hire authority for financial management experts in the Department of Defense
workforce.
Sec. 1107. Authority for waiver of requirement for a baccalaureate degree for positions in the
Department of Defense on cybersecurity and computer programming.
Subtitle B—Government-wide Matters
Sec. 1111. Elimination of foreign exemption provision in regard to overtime for Federal civilian
employees temporarily assigned to a foreign area.
Sec. 1112. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on premium pay and aggregate
limitation on pay for Federal civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1113. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant allowances, benefits, and gratuities
to civilian personnel on official duty in a combat zone.
TITLE XII—Matters Relating to Foreign Nations
Subtitle A—Assistance and Training
Sec. 1201. Support of special operations for irregular warfare.
Sec. 1202. Modification of authority on support of special operations to combat terrorism.
Sec. 1203. Modifications of certain authority in connection with reform of defense security
cooperation programs and activities.
Sec. 1204. Global Security Contingency Fund matters.
Sec. 1205. Defense Institute of International Legal Studies.
Subtitle B—Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan
Sec. 1211. Extension of Commanders' Emergency Response Program and related authorities.
Sec. 1212. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and provide defense services to the
military and security forces of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1213. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of certain coalition nations
for support provided to United States military operations.
Sec. 1214. Extension of authority to acquire products and services produced in countries along a
major route of supply to Afghanistan.
Sec. 1215. Extension of semiannual report on enhancing security and stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1216. Sense of Congress regarding the Afghan special immigrant visa program.
Sec. 1217. Special immigrant visas for Afghan allies.
Subtitle C—Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran
Sec. 1231. Modification of authority to provide assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and
Syria.
Sec. 1232. Modification of authority to provide assistance to the vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1233. Extension and modification of authority to support operations and activities of the
Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1234. Modification and additional elements in annual report on the military power of Iran.
Subtitle D—Matters Relating to the Russian Federation
Sec. 1241. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the United States and the
Russian Federation.
Sec. 1242. Extension of limitation on availability of funds relating to activities to recognize the
sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1243. Extension of Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.
Sec. 1244. Extension of authority on training for Eastern European national security forces in the
course of multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1245. Security assistance for Baltic nations for joint program for resiliency and deterrence
against aggression.
Sec. 1246. Annual report on military and security developments involving the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1247. Annual report on attempts of the Russian Federation to provide disinformation and
propaganda to members of the Armed Forces by social media.
Sec. 1248. Support of European Deterrence Initiative to deter Russian aggression.
Sec. 1249. Sense of Congress on the European Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1250. Enhancement of Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.
Sec. 1251. Sense of Congress on the importance of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Intelligence Fusion Center.
Subtitle E—Matters Relating to the Asia-Pacific Region
Sec. 1261. Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative.
Sec. 1262. Expansion of military-to-military engagement with the Government of Burma.
Sec. 1263. Agreement supplemental to Compact of Free Association with Palau.
Sec. 1264. Workforce issues for relocation of Marines to Guam.
Sec. 1265. United States policy with respect to freedom of navigation operations and overflight
beyond the territorial seas.
Sec. 1266. Sense of Congress on the importance of the rule of law in the South China Sea.
Sec. 1267. Sense of Congress on the importance of the relationship between the United States and
Japan.
Sec. 1268. Sense of Congress on the importance of the United States alliance with the Republic of
Korea.
Sec. 1269. Sense of Congress on extended deterrence for the Korean Peninsula and Japan.
Sec. 1270. Defense partnership between the United States and Taiwan.
Sec. 1270A. Naval port of call exchanges between the United States and Taiwan.
Sec. 1270B. Program to enhance the undersea warfare capabilities of Taiwan.
Sec. 1270C. Invitation of Taiwan military forces to participate in joint military exercises.
Sec. 1270D. Report on military exchanges between senior officers and officials of the United States
and Taiwan.
Subtitle F—Reports
Sec. 1271. Submittal of Department of Defense Supplemental and Cost of War Execution reports on
quarterly basis.
Sec. 1272. Consolidation of reports on United States Armed Forces, civilian employees, and
contractors deployed in support of Operation Inherent Resolve and
Operation Freedom’s Sentinel.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 1281. Modification of availability of funds in Special Defense Acquisition Fund for precision
guided munitions.
Sec. 1282. Use of funds in the United States for certain United States-Israel anti-tunnel
cooperation activities.
Sec. 1283. Foreign military sales letters of request for pricing and availability.
Sec. 1284. Sense of Congress on reaffirming strategic partnerships and allies.
TITLE XIII—COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.
TITLE XIV—Other Authorizations
Subtitle A—Military Programs
Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
Subtitle B—National Defense Stockpile
Sec. 1411. Authority to dispose of certain materials from and to acquire additional materials for
the National Defense Stockpile.
Subtitle C—Chemical Demilitarization Matters
Sec. 1421. Acquisition reporting on major chemical demilitarization programs of the Department of
Defense.
Subtitle D—Armed Forces Retirement Home
Sec. 1431. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement Home.
Sec. 1432. Armed Forces Retirement Home matters.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
Sec. 1441. Authority for transfer of funds to Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell
Health Care Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1442. Enhancement of database of emergency response capabilities of the Department of Defense.
TITLE XV—Authorization of Additional Appropriations for Overseas Contingency Operations
Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1503. Procurement.
Sec. 1504. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1505. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1506. Military personnel.
Sec. 1507. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1508. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1509. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1510. Defense Health Program.
Subtitle B—Financial Matters
Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Sec. 1531. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
TITLE XVI—STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS
Subtitle A—Space Activities
Sec. 1601. Air Force Space Command.
Sec. 1602. Air Force space contractor responsibility watch list.
Sec. 1603. Presidential National Voice Conferencing System.
Sec. 1604. Limitation on use of funds for Delta IV launch vehicle.
Sec. 1605. Policy of the United States with respect to classification of space as a combat domain.
Sec. 1606. Launch support and infrastructure modernization.
Subtitle B—Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities
Sec. 1611. Extension of authority to engage in commercial activities as security for intelligence
collection activities.
Subtitle C—Cyber Warfare, Cybersecurity, and Related Matters
Sec. 1621. Policy of the United States on cyberspace, cybersecurity, and cyber warfare.
Sec. 1622. Cyber posture review.
Sec. 1623. Modification and clarification of requirements and authorities relating to establishment
of unified combatant command for cyber operations.
Sec. 1624. Annual assessment of cyber resiliency of nuclear command and control system.
Sec. 1625. Strategic Cybersecurity Program.
Sec. 1626. Evaluation of agile acquisition of cyber tools and applications.
Sec. 1627. Report on cost implications of terminating dual-hat arrangement for Commander of United
States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1628. Modification of Information Assurance Scholarship Program.
Sec. 1629. Measuring compliance of components of Department of Defense with cybersecurity
requirements for securing industrial control systems.
Sec. 1630. Exercise on assessing cybersecurity support to election systems of States.
Sec. 1630A. Report on various approaches to cyber deterrence.
Sec. 1630B. Prohibition on use of software platforms developed by Kaspersky Lab.
Subtitle D—Nuclear Forces
Sec. 1631. Collection, storage, and sharing of data relating to nuclear security enterprise.
Sec. 1632. Establishment of procedures for implementation of Nuclear Enterprise Review.
Sec. 1633. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Sec. 1634. Execution and programmatic oversight of nuclear command, control, and communications
programs.
Sec. 1635. Measures in response to noncompliance of the Russian Federation with its obligations
under the INF Treaty.
Sec. 1636. Certification that the Nuclear Posture Review addresses deterrent effect and operation
of United States nuclear forces in current and future security
environments.
Sec. 1637. Plan to manage Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack Assessment System and multi-domain
sensors.
Sec. 1638. Certification requirement with respect to strategic radiation hardened trusted foundry.
Sec. 1639. Requirements for Nuclear Posture Review.
Sec. 1640. Sense of Congress on Nuclear Posture Review.
Subtitle E—Missile Defense Programs
Sec. 1651. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense
Program co-development and co-production.
Sec. 1652. Development of persistent space-based sensor architecture.
Sec. 1653. Ground-based interceptor capacity and Fort Greely missile field infrastructure
requirements.
Sec. 1654. Sense of the Senate on the state of United States missile defense.
Sec. 1655. Sense of the Senate and report on ground-based midcourse defense testing.
DIVISION B—Military construction authorizations
Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.
TITLE XXI—Army military construction
Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2014 project.
Sec. 2105. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2015 project.
Sec. 2106. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2014 project.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects.
TITLE XXII—Navy military construction
Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 projects.
Sec. 2206. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects.
TITLE XXIII—Air Force military construction
Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2017 projects.
Sec. 2306. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects.
TITLE XXIV—Defense agencies military construction
Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2017 project.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 projects.
Sec. 2406. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects.
TITLE XXV—International programs
Subtitle A—North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program
Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
Subtitle B—Host country in-kind contributions
Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
Sec. 2512. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2017 projects.
TITLE XXVI—Guard and Reserve Forces facilities
Subtitle A—Project authorizations and authorization of appropriations
Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction and land acquisition
projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
Subtitle B—Other Matters
Sec. 2611. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2015 project.
Sec. 2612. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 projects.
Sec. 2613. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects.
TITLE XXVII—Base realignment and closure activities
Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and closure activities funded
through Department of Defense Base Closure Account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and closure (BRAC) round.
TITLE XXVIII—Military Construction and General Provisions
Subtitle A—Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing Changes
Sec. 2801. Authority to use expiring funds for certain military construction projects.
Sec. 2802. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation and maintenance funds for
construction projects in certain areas outside the United States.
Subtitle B—Real Property and Facilities Administration
Sec. 2811. Authority to use energy cost savings for energy resilience, mission assurance, and
weather damage repair and prevention measures.
Sec. 2812. Modification of unspecified minor military construction project authority to cover
correction of deficiencies that are threats to installation resilience.
Sec. 2813. Land exchange valuation of property with reduced development that limits encroachment on
military installations.
Sec. 2814. Treatment of storm water collection systems as utility systems.
Sec. 2815. Access to military installations by transportation network companies.
Subtitle C—Land Conveyances
Sec. 2821. Land conveyance, Natick Soldier Systems Center, Massachusetts.
Sec. 2822. Land conveyance, Army and Air Force Exchange Service property, Dallas, Texas.
Sec. 2823. Land conveyances, certain former peacekeeper ICBM facilities in Wyoming.
Sec. 2824. Land exchange, Naval Industrial Ordnance Reserve Plant, Sunnyvale, California.
Sec. 2825. Land exchange, Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, Texas.
Subtitle D—Project Management and Oversight Reforms
Sec. 2831. Notification requirement for certain cost overruns and schedule delays.
Sec. 2832. Limited authority for private sector supervision of military construction projects in
event of extensive cost overruns or project delays.
Sec. 2833. Annual report on cost overruns and schedule delays.
Sec. 2834. Report on design errors and omissions related to Fort Bliss hospital replacement
project.
Sec. 2835. Report on cost increase and delay related to USSTRATCOM command and control facility
project at Offutt Air Force Base.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
Sec. 2841. Annual Department of Defense energy management reports.
Sec. 2842. Aggregation of energy efficiency and energy resilience projects in life cycle cost
analyses.
Sec. 2843. Authority of the Secretary of the Air Force to accept lessee improvements at Air Force
Plant 42.
Sec. 2844. Prohibition on use of funds for Kwajalein project.
Sec. 2845. Energy resilience.
Sec. 2846. Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in awarding energy and fuel
contracts for military installations.
Sec. 2847. Requirement to address energy resilience in exercising utility system conveyance
authority.
Sec. 2848. In-kind lease payments; prioritization of utility services that promote energy
resilience.
Sec. 2849. Disclosure of beneficial ownership by foreign persons of high security space leased by
the Department of Defense.
TITLE XXIX—Overseas contingency operations military construction
Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2904. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2015 projects.
DIVISION C—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
TITLE XXXI—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
Subtitle A—National Security Programs and Authorizations
Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.
Subtitle B—Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations
Sec. 3111. Assessment and development of prototype nuclear weapons of foreign countries.
Sec. 3112. Use of funds for construction and project support activities relating to MOX facility.
Sec. 3113. Repeal, consolidation, and modification of reporting requirements.
Sec. 3114. National Nuclear Security Administration personnel system.
Sec. 3115. Annual reports on unfunded priorities of National Nuclear Security Administration.
TITLE XXXII—DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
Sec. 3201. Authorization.
TITLE XXXV—MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 3501. Maritime Administration.
DIVISION D—Funding Tables
Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
TITLE XLI—Procurement
Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLII—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLIII—Operation and Maintenance
Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLIV—Military Personnel
Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLV—Other Authorizations
Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLVI—Military Construction
Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLVII—Department of Energy National Security Programs
Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.
3.
Congressional
defense committees
In this Act, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code.
4.
Budgetary effects of this Act
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled
Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation
for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report or amendment between the Houses.
A
Department of Defense Authorizations
I
Procurement
A
Authorization of appropriations
101.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table in section 4101.
B
Army programs
111.
Transfer of excess High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicles to foreign countries
(a)
Transfers
(1)
In general
Chapter 153
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2581
the following new section:
2581a.
Transfer of excess High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicles (HMMWVs) to foreign countries
(a)
Requirements
(1)
Before an excess High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV) is transferred on a grant or sales basis to a foreign country for the purpose of operation by that country, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the HMMWV receives the same new, modernized powertrain and a modernized, armored or armor-capable crew compartment restored to like-new condition that the HMMWV would receive if it were to be modernized for operational use by the armed forces.
(2)
For the purposes of paragraph (1), the term
the same new, modernized powertrain
—
(A)
means a fully-functioning new powertrain system; and
(B)
does not mean an individual part, component, subassembly, assembly, or subsystem integral to the functioning of the powertrain system such as a new engine or transmission.
(3)
Any work performed pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be performed in the United States and shall be covered by section 2460(b)(1) of this title.
(b)
Waiver
Subject to the requirements of subsection (c), the Secretary may waive the requirements of subsection (a)(1) if the Secretary determines in writing that such an exception is required by the national security interests of the United States.
(c)
Notification
(1)
If the Secretary makes a written determination under subsection (b), the Secretary may not transfer excess HMMWVs until 30 days after the Secretary has provided notice of the proposed transfer to the congressional defense committees. The notification shall include—
(A)
the total quantity of HMMWVs, the serial and model numbers of each individual HMMWV, and the age, condition, and expected useful life of each individual HMMWV to be transferred;
(B)
the recipient of the HMMWVs, the intended use of the HMMWVs, and a description of the national security interests of the United States necessitating the transfer;
(C)
an explanation of why it is not in the national security interests of the United States to make the transfer in accordance with the requirements of subsection (a);
(D)
the impact on the national technology and industrial base and, particularly, any reduction of the opportunities of entities in the national technology and industrial base to sell new or used HMMWVs to the countries to which the proposed transfer of HMMWVs is to take place; and
(E)
the names of all entities in the national technology and industrial base consulted as part of the determination in subsection (D), as well as the dates when and the names, titles, and affiliations of all individuals with whom such consultations took place.
(2)
The Secretary shall make the notification required under this subsection in accordance with the procedures specified in section 060403 of volume 3, chapter 6, of the Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2581 the following new item:
2581a. Transfer of excess High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicles (HMMWVs) to foreign
countries.
.
(b)
Effective date
Section 2581a of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to transfers of High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicles on and after the date of the enactment of this Act.
112.
Limitation on availability of funds for Army Air-Land Mobile Tactical Communications and Data
Network, including Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T)
(a)
Limitation
No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for other procurement, Army, and available for the Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T), Increment 2 (Inc 2) program may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of the Army submits the report required under subsection (b).
(b)
Report
The Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing how the Army intends to implement the recommendations related to air-land ad-hoc, mobile tactical communications and data networks provided by the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation (CAPE) pursuant to section 237 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 781).
C
Navy programs
121.
Multiyear procurement authority for Virginia class submarine program
(a)
Authority for multiyear procurement
Subject to section 2306b of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2019 program year, for the procurement of up to 13 Virginia class submarines.
(b)
Authority for advance procurement
The Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more contracts, beginning in fiscal year 2018, for advance procurement associated with the Virginia Class submarines for which authorization to enter into a multiyear procurement contract is provided under subsection (a), and for equipment or subsystems associated with the Virginia Class submarine program, including procurement of—
(1)
long lead time material; or
(2)
material or equipment in economic order quantities when cost savings are achievable.
(c)
Condition for out-year contract payments
A contract entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2019 is subject to the availability of appropriations or funds for that purpose for such fiscal year.
(d)
Limitation on termination liability
A contract for construction of Virginia Class submarines entered into in accordance with subsection (a) shall include a clause that limits the liability of the United States to the contractor for any termination of the contract. The maximum liability of the United States under the clause shall be the amount appropriated for the submarines covered by the contract regardless of the amount obligated under the contract.
122.
Arleigh Burke class destroyers
(a)
Authority for multiyear procurement
(1)
In general
Subject to section 2306b of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning not earlier than the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, for the procurement of up to 15 Arleigh Burke class Flight III guided missile destroyers.
(2)
Authority for advance procurement
The Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more contracts, beginning in fiscal year 2018, for advance procurement associated with the destroyers for which authorization to enter into a multiyear procurement contract is provided under paragraph (1), and for systems and subsystems associated with such destroyers in economic order quantities when cost savings are achievable.
(3)
Condition for out-year contract payments
A contract entered into under paragraph (1) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject to the availability of appropriations or funds for that purpose for such fiscal year.
(b)
Modification to procurement of additional arleigh burke class destroyer
Section 125(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
) is amended by striking
to be procured either
and inserting
to be procured using a fixed-price contract either
.
123.
Multiyear procurement authority for V–22 joint aircraft program
(a)
Authority for multiyear procurement
Subject to section 2306b of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may enter into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2018 program year, for the procurement of V–22 aircraft. Notwithstanding subsection (k) of such section 2306b, the Secretary of Defense may enter into a multiyear contract under this section for up to five years.
(b)
Condition for out-year contract payments
A contract entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject to the availability of appropriations for that purpose for such later fiscal year.
124.
Design and construction of amphibious ship replacement designated LX(R) or amphibious transport
dock designated LPD–30
(a)
In general
The Secretary of the Navy may enter into a contract, beginning with the fiscal year 2018 program year, for the design and construction of the amphibious ship replacement designated LX(R) or the amphibious transport dock designated LPD–30 using amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy.
(b)
Use of incremental funding
With respect to the contract entered into under subsection (a), the Secretary may use incremental funding to make payments under the contract.
(c)
Condition for out-year contract payments
The contract entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under such contract for any fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject to the availability of appropriations for that purpose for such fiscal year.
125.
Modification of cost limitation baseline for CVN–78 class aircraft carrier program
Section 122(a) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
; 120 Stat. 2105), as most recently amended by section 122 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 749), is further amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
(2)
CVN–
79
The total amount obligated from funds appropriated or otherwise made available for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, or for any other procurement account, for the aircraft carrier designated CVN–79 may not exceed $11,398,000,000 (as adjusted pursuant to subsection (b)).
(3)
Follow-on ships
The total amount obligated from funds appropriated or otherwise made available for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, or for any other procurement account, for any ship that is constructed in the CVN–78 class of aircraft carriers after CVN–79 may not exceed $12,000,000,000 (as adjusted pursuant to subsection (b)).
.
126.
Extension of limitation on use of sole-source shipbuilding contracts for certain vessels
Section 124 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended by striking
2017
and inserting
2017 or fiscal year 2018
.
D
Air Force Programs
131.
Inventory requirement for Air Force fighter aircraft
(a)
Inventory requirement
Section 8062 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(i)
Inventory requirement
(1)
Effective October 1, 2017, the Secretary of the Air Force shall maintain a total aircraft inventory of fighter aircraft of not less than 1,970 aircraft, and a total primary mission aircraft inventory (combat-coded) of not less than 1,145 fighter aircraft.
(2)
In this subsection:
(A)
The term
fighter aircraft
means an aircraft that—
(i)
is designated by a mission design series prefix of F– or A–;
(ii)
is manned by one or two crewmembers; and
(iii)
executes single-role or multi-role missions, including air-to-air combat, air-to-ground attack, air interdiction, suppression or destruction of enemy air defenses, close air support, strike control and reconnaissance, combat search and rescue support, or airborne forward air control.
(B)
The term
primary mission aircraft inventory
means aircraft assigned to meet the primary aircraft authorization to a unit for the performance of its wartime mission.
.
(b)
Limitation on retirement of Air Force fighter aircraft
(1)
Limitation
Except as provided under subsection (d), the Secretary of the Air Force may not proceed with a decision to retire fighter aircraft in any number that would reduce the total number of such aircraft in the Air Force total active inventory (TAI) below 1,970, and shall maintain a minimum of 1,145 fighter aircraft designated as primary mission aircraft inventory (PMAI).
(2)
Additional limitations on retirement of fighter aircraft
Except as provided under subsection (d), the Secretary of the Air Force may not retire fighter aircraft from the total active inventory as of the date of the enactment of this Act until the later of the following:
(A)
The date that is 30 days after the date on which the Secretary submits the report required under paragraph (3).
(B)
The date that is 30 days after the date on which the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees that—
(i)
the retirement of such fighter aircraft will not increase the operational risk of meeting the National Defense Strategy; and
(ii)
the retirement of such aircraft will not reduce the total fighter force structure below 1,970 fighter aircraft or the primary mission aircraft inventory below 1,145.
(3)
Report on retirement of aircraft
The Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth the following:
(A)
The rationale for the retirement of existing fighter aircraft and an operational analysis of replacement fighter aircraft that demonstrates performance of the designated mission at an equal or greater level of effectiveness as the retiring aircraft.
(B)
An assessment of the implications for the Air Force, the Air National Guard, and the Air Force Reserve of the force mix ratio of fighter aircraft.
(C)
Such other matters relating to the retirement of fighter aircraft as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(c)
Reports on fighter aircraft
(1)
In general
Except as provided under subsection (d), at least 90 days before the date on which a fighter aircraft is retired, the Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation with (where applicable) the Director of the Air National Guard or Chief of the Air Force Reserve, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the proposed force structure and basing of fighter aircraft.
(2)
Elements
Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
(A)
A list of each fighter aircraft proposed for retirement, including for each such aircraft—
(i)
the mission design series type;
(ii)
the variant; and
(iii)
the assigned unit and military installation where such aircraft is based.
(B)
A list of each unit affected by a proposed retirement listed under subparagraph (A) and a description of how such unit is affected.
(C)
For each military installation and unit listed under subparagraph (A)(iii), a description of changes, if any, to the designed operational capability (DOC) statement of the unit as a result of a proposed retirement.
(D)
A description of any anticipated changes in manpower authorizations as a result of a proposed retirement listed under subparagraph (A).
(d)
Exception for certain aircraft
The requirements of subsections (b) and (c) do not apply to individual fighter aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be non-operational because of mishaps, other damage, or being uneconomical to repair.
(e)
Fighter aircraft defined
In this section, the term
fighter aircraft
has the meaning given the term in subsection (i)(2)(A) of section 8062 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section.
132.
Comptroller General review of total force integration initiatives for reserve component rescue
squadrons
(a)
Comptroller general review
Not later than June 30, 2018, the Comptroller General of the United States shall review the Air Force fielding plan for the HH–60 replacement programs and submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the plan.
(b)
Briefing
Not later than March 1, 2018, the Comptroller General shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees on the plan.
(c)
Elements
The review received under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the HH–60 replacement programs, the following elements:
(1)
A description of the National Commission on the Structure of the Air Force’s recommendations regarding the use of concurrent and proportional fielding and how the Air Force applied these principles in the fielding plan for the HH–60G replacement programs.
(2)
An evaluation of the Air Force’s fielding plan for the HH–60G replacement programs, including an assessment of the Air Force’s rationale for the plan, as well as the alternative fielding plans considered by the Air Force.
(3)
An evaluation of the potential readiness impact of the Air Force’s fielding plan on active duty, National Guard, and Reserve units, including the ability to meet training, maintenance, and deployment requirements, as well as the implications for total force integration initiatives should the fielding not be proportional.
(d)
HH–60G replacement programs defined
In this section, the term
HH–60G replacement programs
means the HH–60G Ops Loss Replacement and HH-60W Combat Rescue Helicopter programs.
E
Defense-wide, Joint, and multiservice matters
141.
F–35 economic order quantity contracting authority
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may enter into one or more contracts during fiscal year 2018 for the procurement of economic order quantities of material and equipment that has completed formal hardware qualification testing for the F–35 aircraft for use in procurement contracts to be awarded during fiscal years 2019 and 2020. The total amount obligated under all contracts entered into under this section shall not exceed $661,000,000.
(b)
Authority
To the extent that funds are otherwise available for obligation, the Secretary may enter into economic order quantity contracts for purchases under this section whenever the Secretary finds each of the following:
(1)
That the use of such a contract will result in significant savings of the total anticipated costs of carrying out the program through annual contracts.
(2)
That the minimum need for the property to be purchased is expected to remain substantially unchanged during the contemplated contract period in terms of production rate, procurement rate, and total quantities.
(3)
That there is a reasonable expectation that throughout the contemplated contract period the Secretary will request funding for the contract at the level required to avoid contract cancellation.
(4)
That there is a stable design for the property to be acquired and that the technical risks associated with such property are not excessive.
(5)
That the estimates of both the cost of the contract and the anticipated cost avoidance through the use of an economic order quantity contract are realistic.
(6)
That the use of such a contract will promote the national security of the United States.
(c)
Certification requirement
A contract may not be entered into under this section unless the Secretary of Defense certifies in writing, not later than 30 days before entry into the contract, that each of the following conditions is satisfied:
(1)
The Secretary has determined that each of the requirements in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (b) will be met by such contract and has provided the basis for such determination to the congressional defense committees.
(2)
Confirmation that the preliminary findings of the Secretary under paragraph (1) were made after the completion of a cost analysis performed by the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation for the purpose of section 2334(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, and that the analysis supports those preliminary findings.
(3)
A sufficient number of end items of the system being acquired under such contract have been delivered at or within the most current estimates of the program acquisition unit cost or procurement unit cost for such system to determine that current estimates of such unit costs are realistic.
(4)
During the fiscal year in which such contract is to be awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the contract in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense program for such fiscal year will include the funding required to execute the program without cancellation.
(5)
The contract is a fixed price type contract.
(6)
The proposed contract provides for production at not less than minimum economic rates given the existing tooling and facilities.
142.
Authority for Explosive Ordnance Disposal units to acquire new or emerging technologies and
capabilities
The Secretary of Defense may provide Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) units with the authority to acquire new or emerging EOD technologies and capabilities that are not specifically listed on the Table of Allowance (TOA) or Table of Equipment (TOE).
II
Research, development, test, and evaluation
A
Authorization of appropriations
201.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, test, and evaluation as specified in the funding table in section 4201.
B
Program requirements, restrictions, and limitations
211.
Mechanisms for expedited access to technical talent and expertise at academic institutions to
support Department of Defense missions
(a)
Arrangements authorized
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may establish one or more multi-institution task order contracts, consortia, cooperative agreements, or other arrangements to facilitate expedited access to university technical expertise, including faculty, staff, and students, in support of Department of Defense missions in the areas specified in subsection (e).
(2)
Use for technical analyses and engineering support
The Secretary may use an arrangement under paragraph (1) to fund technical analyses and other engineering support as required to address acquisition and operational challenges, including support for classified programs and activities.
(3)
Performance by designated university performer
The Secretary shall ensure that work awarded through an arrangement under paragraph (1) is performed primarily by the designated university performer.
(b)
Limitation
An arrangement established under subsection (a)(1) may not be used to fund research programs that can be executed through other Department of Defense basic research activities.
(c)
Consultation with other Department of Defense activities
An arrangement established under subsection (a)(1) shall, to the degree practicable, be made in consultation with other Department of Defense activities, including federally funded research and development centers (FFRDCs), university affiliated research centers (UARCs), and Defense laboratories and test centers, for purposes of providing technical expertise and reducing costs and duplicative efforts.
(d)
Policies and procedures
If the Secretary establishes one or more arrangements under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall establish and implement policies and procedures to govern—
(1)
selection of participants in the arrangement or arrangements;
(2)
the awarding of task orders under the arrangement or arrangements;
(3)
maximum award size for tasks under the arrangement or arrangements;
(4)
the appropriate use of competitive awards and sole source awards under the arrangement or arrangements; and
(5)
technical areas under the arrangement or arrangements.
(e)
Mission areas
The areas specified in this subsection are as follows:
(1)
Cybersecurity.
(2)
Air and ground vehicles.
(3)
Shipbuilding.
(4)
Explosives detection and defeat.
(5)
Undersea warfare.
(6)
Trusted electronics.
(7)
Unmanned systems.
(8)
Directed energy.
(9)
Energy, power, and propulsion.
(10)
Management science and operations research.
(11)
Artificial intelligence.
(12)
Data analytics.
(13)
Business systems.
(14)
Technology transfer and transition.
(15)
Biological engineering and genetic enhancement.
(16)
High performance computing.
(17)
Materials science and engineering.
(18)
Quantum information sciences.
(19)
Special operations activities.
(20)
Modeling and simulation.
(21)
Autonomous systems.
(22)
Model based engineering.
(23)
Such other areas as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(f)
Sunset
The authorities under this section shall expire on September 30, 2020.
(g)
Arrangements established under subsection (a)(1) defined
In this section, the term
arrangement established under subsection (a)(1)
means a multi-institution task order contract, consortia, cooperative agreement, or other arrangement established under subsection (a)(1).
212.
Codification and enhancement of authorities to provide funds for defense laboratories for research
and development of
technologies for military missions
(a)
In general
Chapter 139
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2362
the following new section:
2363.
Mechanisms to
provide funds for defense laboratories for research and development of
technologies for military missions
(a)
Mechanisms to provide funds
(1)
The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall establish mechanisms under which the director of a defense laboratory may use an amount of funds equal to not less than two percent and not more than four percent of all funds available to the defense laboratory for the following purposes:
(A)
To fund innovative basic and applied research that is conducted at the defense laboratory and supports military missions.
(B)
To fund development programs that support the transition of technologies developed by the defense laboratory into operational use.
(C)
To fund workforce development activities that improve the capacity of the defense laboratory to recruit and retain personnel with necessary scientific and engineering expertise that support military missions.
(D)
To fund the revitalization recapitalization, or minor military construction of the laboratory infrastructure and equipment, in accordance with subsection (b).
(2)
The mechanisms established under paragraph (1) shall provide that funding shall be used under paragraph (1) at the discretion of the director of a defense laboratory in consultation with the science and technology executive of the military department concerned.
(3)
After consultation with the science and technology executive of the military department concerned, the director of a defense laboratory may charge customer activities a fixed percentage fee, in addition to normal costs of performance, in order to obtain funds to carry out activities authorized by this subsection. The fixed fee may not exceed four percent of costs.
(b)
Availability of funds for infrastructure projects
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this subsection, funds available under a mechanism under subsection (a)(1)(D) that are solely intended to carry out a laboratory infrastructure project shall be available for such project until expended.
(2)
Funds shall be available in accordance with paragraph (1) for a project referred to in such paragraph only if the Secretary notifies the congressional defense committees of the total cost of the project before the date on which the Secretary uses a mechanism under subsection (a)(1)(D) for such project.
(3)
Funds may accumulate under a mechanism under subsection (a) for a project referred to in paragraph (1) for not more than five years.
(4)
The Secretary shall ensure that a project referred to in paragraph (1) for which funds are made available in accordance with such paragraph complies with the applicable cost limitations in the following provisions of law:
(A)
Section 2805(d) of this title, with respect to revitalization and recapitalization projects.
(B)
Section 2811 of this title, with respect to repair projects.
(C)
Section 2802 of this title, with respect to construction projects that exceed the cost specified in subsection (a)(2) of section 2805 of this title for certain unspecified minor military construction projects for laboratories.
(c)
Annual report on use of authority
Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the use of the authority under subsection (a) during the preceding year.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 139 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2362 the following new item:
2363. Mechanisms to provide funds for defense laboratories for research and development of
technologies for military missions.
.
(c)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Section 219 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note), is hereby repealed.
(2)
Section 2805(d)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
under section 219(a) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note)
and inserting
section 2363(a) of this title
.
213.
Modification of laboratory quality enhancement program
(a)
In general
Section 211 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the semicolon and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
new interpretations of existing statutes and regulations that would enhance the ability of a director of a science and technology reinvention laboratory to manage the facility and discharge the mission of the laboratory;
;
(2)
in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
(A)
Each panel described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (b) shall submit to the panel described in paragraph (4) of such subsection (relating to governance and oversight processes) the following:
(i)
The findings of the panel with respect to the review conducted by the panel under subsection (a)(1)(C).
(ii)
The recommendations made by the panel under such subsection.
(iii)
Such comments, findings, and recommendations as the panel may have received by a science and technology reinvention laboratory with respect to—
(I)
the review conducted by the panel under such subsection; or
(II)
recommendations made by the panel under such subsection.
(B)
(i)
The panel described in subsection (b)(4) shall review and refashion such recommendations as the panel may receive under subparagraph (A).
(ii)
In reviewing and refashioning recommendations under clause (i), the panel may, as the panel considers appropriate, consult with the science and technology executive of the affected service.
(C)
The panel described in subsection (b)(4) shall submit to the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering the recommendations made by the panel under subsection (a)(1)(C) and the recommendations refashioned by the panel under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.
;
(3)
by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsection (f) and (g), respectively; and
(4)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection (e):
(e)
Interpretation of provisions of law
(1)
The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, acting under the guidance of the Secretary, shall issue regulations regarding the meaning, scope, implementation, and applicability of any provision of a statute relating to a science and technology reinvention laboratory.
(2)
In interpreting or defining under paragraph (1), the Under Secretary shall, to the degree practicable, emphasize providing the maximum operational flexibility to the directors of the science and technology reinvention laboratories to discharge the missions of their laboratories.
(3)
In interpreting or defining under paragraph (1), the Under Secretary shall seek recommendations from the panel described in subsection (b)(4).
.
(b)
Technical corrections
(1)
Subsections (a), (c)(1)(C), and (d)(2) of such section are amended by striking
Assistant Secretary
each place it appears and inserting
Under Secretary
.
(2)
Subparagraph (C) of section 342(b)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (
Public Law 103–337
), as amended by section 211(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), as redesignated by subsection (a)(3) of this section, is amended by striking
Assistant Secretary
and inserting
Under Secretary
.
214.
Prizes for advanced technology achievements
Section 2374a of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
in recognition of
and inserting
and other types of prizes that the Secretary determines are appropriate to recognize
;
(2)
in subsection (c), by striking
cash
both places it appears;
(3)
in subsection (e)—
(A)
by striking
and from State and local governments
and inserting
, from State and local governments, and from the private sector
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
The Secretary may not give any special consideration to any private sector entity in return for a donation.
; and
(4)
by amending subsection (f) to read as follows:
(f)
Use of prize authority
Use of prize authority under this section shall be considered the use of competitive procedures for the purposes of section 2304 of this title.
.
215.
Expansion of definition of competitive procedures to include competitive selection for award of
research and development proposals
Section 2302(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
basic research
and inserting
research and development
.
216.
Inclusion of modeling and simulation in test and evaluation activities for purposes of planning and budget certification
Section 196 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (d)(1), in the first sentence, by inserting
, including modeling and simulation capabilities
after
and resources
; and
(2)
in subsection (e)(1), by inserting
, including modeling and simulation activities,
after
evaluation activities
.
217.
Differentiation of research and development activities from service activities
(a)
In general
For the purposes of activities and programs carried out by the Department of Defense, research and development activities, including activities under the Small Business Innovation Research Program (SBIR) or the Small Business Technology Transfer Program (STTR), shall be considered as separate and distinct from contract service activities.
(b)
Guidance
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue updated guidance to carry out this section.
(c)
Definitions
(1)
In general
In this section:
(A)
The term
advisory and assistance service
has the meaning given such term in section 1105(g)(2) of title 31, United States Code.
(B)
The term
research and development activities
—
(i)
means—
(I)
creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge, including the knowledge of man, culture, and society; and
(II)
the use of the stock of knowledge described in subparagraph (A) to devise new applications; and
(ii)
includes activities described in section 9 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638
).
(C)
The term
contract service activities
has the meaning given the term
contract services
in section 2330(c) of title 10, United States Code.
(D)
The terms
Small Business Innovation Research Program
and
Small Business Technology Transfer Program
have the meanings given such terms in section 9(e) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(e)
).
(2)
Definition of services for purposes of requirements relating to tracking of purchases of services
Section 2330a(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
(5)
Services
The term
services
has the meaning given the term
contract services
in section 2330(c) of this title.
.
218.
Designation of additional Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratories
Section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(20)
The Air Force Office of Scientific Research.
(21)
The 711th Human Performance Wing of the Air Force Research Laboratory.
(22)
The Air Vehicles Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory.
(23)
The Directed Energy Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory.
(24)
The Information Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory.
(25)
The Materials and Manufacturing Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory.
(26)
The Munitions Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory.
(27)
The Propulsion Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory.
(28)
The Sensors Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory.
(29)
The Space Vehicles Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory.
(30)
The Naval Facilities Engineering and Expeditionary Warfare Center.
.
219.
Department of Defense directed energy weapon system prototyping and demonstration program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary, shall establish a program on the prototyping and demonstration of directed energy weapon systems to build and maintain the military superiority of the United States by—
(1)
accelerating the fielding of directed energy weapon systems that would help counter technological advantages of potential adversaries of the United States; and
(2)
supporting the military departments, the combatant commanders, the United States Special Operations Command, and the Missile Defense Agency in developing prototypes and demonstrating operational utility of high energy lasers and high powered microwave weapon systems.
(b)
Guidelines
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall issue guidelines for the operation of the program established under subsection (a), including—
(A)
criteria for an application for funding by a military department, defense agency, or a combatant command;
(B)
the priorities, if any, to be provided to field directed energy weapon system technologies developed by research funding of the Department or industry; and
(C)
criteria for evaluation of an application for funding or changes to policies or acquisition and business practices by such a department, agency, or command for purposes of improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the Program.
(2)
Limitation
Funding for a military department, defense agency, or combatant command under the program established under subsection (a) may only be available for advanced technology development, prototyping, and demonstrations in which the Department of Defense maintains management of the technical baseline and a primary emphasis on technology transition and evaluating military utility to enhance the likelihood that the particular directed energy weapon system will meet the Department end user’s need.
(c)
Applications for funding
(1)
In general
Not less frequently than once each year, the Under Secretary shall solicit from the heads of the military departments, the defense agencies, and the combatant commands applications for funding under the program established under subsection (a) to be used to enter into contracts, cooperative agreements, or other transaction agreements entered into pursuant to section 2371b of title 10, United States Code, with appropriate entities for the fielding or commercialization of technologies.
(2)
Treatment pursuant to certain congressional rules
Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any official of the Department of Defense to provide funding under the program to any congressional earmark as defined pursuant to clause 9 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Representatives or any congressionally directed spending item as defined pursuant to paragraph 5 of rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate.
(d)
Funding
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2) and subject to the availability of appropriations for such purpose, of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for research, development, test, and evaluation, defense-wide, $200,000,000 shall be available to the Under Secretary to allocate to the military departments, the defense agencies, and the combatant commands to carry out the program established under subsection (a).
(2)
Limitation
Not more than half of the amounts made available under paragraph (1) may be allocated as described in such paragraph until the Under Secretary—
(A)
develops the strategic plan required by section 219(a)(2)(A) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
;
10 U.S.C. 2431
note); and
(B)
submits such strategic plan to the congressional defense committees.
(e)
Designation of Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering as the official with principal responsibility for development and demonstration of directed energy weapons
Section 219(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
;
10 U.S.C. 2431
note) is amended by striking
Not later
and all that follows through
of Defense
and inserting
The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall serve
.
(f)
Under Secretary defined
In this section, the term
Under Secretary
means the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering in the Under Secretary's capacity as the official with principal responsibility for the development and demonstration of directed energy weapons pursuant to section 219(a)(1) of such Act (
Public Law 114–328
;
10 U.S.C. 2431
note), as amended by subsection (e).
220.
Authority for the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering to promote innovation in
the Department of Defense
The Secretary of Defense shall establish procedures under which the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering may request a time-limited review and if necessary require coordination on and modification of proposed directives, rules, regulations, and other policies that in Under Secretary's view would adversely affect the ability of the innovation, research, and engineering enterprise of the Department of Defense to effectively and efficiently execute its missions, including policies and practices concerning the following:
(1)
Personnel and talent management.
(2)
Financial management and budgeting.
(3)
Infrastructure, installations, and military construction.
(4)
Acquisition.
(5)
Management.
(6)
Such other areas as the Secretary may designate.
221.
Limitation on availability of funds for F–35 Joint Strike Fighter Follow-On Modernization
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 or any other fiscal year for the Department of Defense may be obligated for F–35 Joint Strike Fighter Follow-On Modernization until the Secretary of Defense provides the final report required under section 224(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
).
222.
Improvement of update process for populating mission data files used in advanced combat aircraft
(a)
Improvements to update process
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall take such actions as may be necessary to improve the process used to update the mission data files used in advanced combat aircraft of the United States so that such updates can occur more quickly.
(2)
Requirements
In improving the process under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure the following:
(A)
That under such process, updates to the mission data files are developed, operationally tested, and loaded onto systems of advanced combat aircraft while in theaters of operation in a time-sensitive manner to allow for the distinguishing of threats, including distinguishing friends from foes, loading and delivery of weapon suites, and coordination with allied and coalition armed forces.
(B)
When updates are made to the mission data files, all areas of responsibility (AoRs) are included.
(C)
The process includes best practices relating to such mission data files that have been identified by industry and allies of the United States.
(D)
The process improves the exchange of information between weapons systems of the United States and weapon systems of allies and partners of the United States, with respect to such mission data files.
(b)
Consultation and pilot programs
In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult the innovation organizations resident in the Department of Defense and may consider carrying out a pilot program under another provision of this Act.
(c)
Report
Not later than March 31, 2018, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the actions taken by the Secretary under subsection (a)(1) and how the process described in such subsection has been improved.
C
Reports and other matters
231.
Competitive acquisition plan for low probability of detection data link networks
(a)
Plan required
The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly, in consultation with the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Air Force, develop a plan to procure a secure, low probability of detection data link network capability with the ability to effectively operate in hostile jamming environments while preserving the low observable characteristics of the relevant platforms, between existing and planned—
(1)
fifth-generation combat aircraft;
(2)
fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat aircraft;
(3)
fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat aircraft and appropriate support aircraft and other network nodes for command, control, communications, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance purposes; and
(4)
fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat aircraft and their associated network-enabled precision weapons.
(b)
Additional plan requirements
The plan required by subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
nonproprietary and open systems approaches compatible with the Rapid Capabilities Office Open Mission Systems initiative of the Air Force and the Future Airborne Capability Environment initiative of the Navy;
(2)
a competitive acquisition process, to include comparative flight demonstrations in realistic airborne environments; and
(3)
low risk and affordable solutions with minimal impact or changes to existing host platforms, and minimal overall integration costs.
(c)
Briefing
Not later than February 15, 2018, the Under Secretary and the Vice Chairman shall provide to the congressional defense committees written documentation and briefing on the plan developed under subsection (a).
(d)
Limitation
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for operations and maintenance for the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, not more than 85 percent may be obligated or expended until a period of 15 days has elapsed following the date on which the Under Secretary and Vice Chairman submits to the congressional defense committees the plan required by subsection (a).
232.
Clarification of selection dates for pilot program for the enhancement of the research,
development, test, and evaluation centers of the Department of Defense
Section 233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(2), by striking
the enactment of this Act
both places it appears and inserting
such submittal
; and
(2)
in subsection (c)(1), by striking
propose and implement
and inserting
submit to the Assistant Secretary concerned a proposal on, and implement,
.
233.
Requirement for a plan to build a prototype for a new ground combat vehicle for the Army
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan to build a prototype for a new ground combat vehicle for the Army.
(b)
Contents
The plan required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A description of how the Secretary intends to exploit the latest enabling component technologies that have the potential to dramatically change basic combat vehicle design and improve lethality, protection, mobility, range, and sustainment, including an analysis of capabilities of the most advanced foreign ground combat vehicles and whether any have characteristics that should inform the development of the Army's prototype vehicle, including whether any United States allies or partners have advanced capabilities that could be directly incorporated in the prototype.
(2)
The schedule, cost, key milestones, and leadership plan to rapidly design and build the prototype ground combat vehicle.
234.
Plan for successfully fielding the Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System
(a)
Plan required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan to successfully field a suitable, survivable, and effective Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System program.
(b)
Limitation
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for research, development, test, and evaluation may be obligated by the Secretary of the Army for the Army Integrated Air and Missile Defense and the Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System until the date on which the plan is submitted under subsection (a).
235.
Sense of Congress on hypersonic weapons
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The United States has gained a thorough understanding of hypersonic technology over the course of seven decades of experimentation.
(2)
The requirements for technological breakthroughs in hypersonics have largely been established, allowing pursuit of hypersonic glide weapons without a prohibitive budget effect.
(3)
The Department of Defense has several hypersonic research and development efforts underway, including conventional prompt global strike (CPS) weapons system, the Hypersonic Air-Breathing Weapon Concept, and the Tactical Boost Glide program.
(4)
In testimony before the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on April 4, 2017, the Commander of United States Strategic Command, General John Hyten, identified the conventional prompt global strike weapons system as the
leading technology maturation effort in the realm of hypersonics
and stated that his command sees
an operational need for a CPS capabilities by the mid-2020s.
.
(5)
Hypersonic weapons present a radical change in warfare, because they can circumvent many of the challenges associated with contested warfare and integrated air defenses.
(6)
Hypersonic weapons may provide solutions to difficult problem sets, such as anti-access area denial schemes, deeply buried or hardened target sets, and mobile high value target sets.
(7)
Other countries are aggressively pursuing hypersonic weapons at an alarming rate that threaten to outpace the United States if the United States does not more aggressively pursue development of hypersonic weapons.
(8)
The Air Force has a $10,000,000 requirement on the Unfunded Priority List for hypersonic prototyping.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Department of Defense should expedite testing, evaluation, and acquisition of hypersonic weapon systems to meet the stated needs of the warfighter;
(2)
testing of such weapon systems should include flight testing, ground based testing, and underwater launch testing;
(3)
the Department of Defense should adhere to the requirement in section 1688 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) to proceed to a Milestone A decision on the conventional prompt global strike weapons system not later than September 30, 2020, or the date that is 240 days after the successful completion of intermediate range flight 2 of such system;
(4)
the United States cannot afford to lose its advantage over foreign countries in developing hypersonic weapons; and
(5)
the Department of Defense should focus on the next generation of weapon systems, including third offset technologies, such as hypersonics.
III
Operation and Maintenance
A
Authorization of appropriations
301.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 4301.
B
Logistics and sustainment
311.
Sentinel Landscapes Partnership
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior, may establish and carry out a program to preserve sentinel landscapes. The program shall be known as the
Sentinel Landscapes Partnership
.
(b)
Designation of sentinel landscapes
The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior, may, as the Secretary determines appropriate, collectively designate one or more sentinel landscapes.
(c)
Coordination of activities
The Secretaries may coordinate actions between their departments and with other agencies and private organizations to more efficiently work together for the mutual benefit of conservation, working lands, and national defense, and to encourage private landowners to engage in voluntary land management and conservation activities that contribute to the sustainment of military installations, ranges, and airspace.
(d)
Priority consideration
The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior may give to any eligible landowner or agricultural producer within a designated sentinel landscape priority consideration for participation in any easement, grant, or assistance programs administered by that Secretary’s department. Participation in any such program pursuant to this section shall be voluntary.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Military installation
The term
military installation
has the same meaning as provided in section 670(1) of title 16, United States Code.
(2)
State-owned national guard installation
The term
State-owned National Guard installation
has the same meaning as provided in section 670(3) of title 16, United States Code.
(3)
Sentinel landscape
The term
sentinel landscape
means a landscape-scale area encompassing—
(A)
one or more military installations or state-owned National Guard installations and associated airspace; and
(B)
the working or natural lands that serve to protect and support the rural economy, the natural environment, outdoor recreation, and the national defense test and training missions of the military- or State-owned National Guard installation or installations.
(f)
Conforming amendment
Section 312(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (
Public Law 113–66
; 127 Stat. 729;
10 U.S.C. 2684a
note) is repealed.
312.
Increased percentage of sustainment funds authorized for realignment to restoration and
modernization at each installation
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may authorize an installation commander to realign up to 7.5 percent of an installation’s sustainment funds to restoration and modernization.
(b)
Sunset
The authority under subsection (a) shall expire at the close of September 30, 2022.
(c)
Definitions
The terms
sustainment
,
restoration
, and
modernization
have the meanings given the terms in the Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation.
C
Reports
321.
Plan for modernized, dedicated Department of the Navy adversary air training enterprise
(a)
Plan required
The Chief of Naval Operations and the Commandant of the Marine Corps shall develop a plan—
(1)
to establish a modernized, dedicated adversary air training enterprise for the Department of the Navy in order to—
(A)
maximize warfighting effectiveness and synergies of the current and planned fourth and fifth generation combat air forces through optimized training and readiness; and
(B)
harness intelligence analysis, emerging live-virtual-constructive training technologies, range infrastructure improvements, and results of experimentation and prototyping efforts in operational concept development;
(2)
to explore all available opportunities to challenge the combat air forces of the Department of the Navy with threat representative adversary-to-friendly aircraft ratios, known and emerging adversary tactics, and high-fidelity replication of threat airborne and ground capabilities; and
(3)
to execute all means available to achieve training and readiness goals and objectives of the Navy and Marine Corps with demonstrated institutional commitment to the adversary air training enterprise through the application of Department of the Navy policy and resources, partnering with the other Armed Forces, allies, and friends, and employing the use of industry contracted services.
(b)
Plan elements
The plan required under subsection (a) shall include enterprise goals, objectives, concepts of operations, phased implementation timelines, analysis of expected readiness improvements, prioritized resource requirements, and such other matters as the Chief of Naval Operations and Commandant of the Marine Corps consider appropriate.
(c)
Submittal of plan and briefing
Not later than March 1, 2018, the Chief of Naval Operations and Commandant of the Marine Corps shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a written plan and briefing on the plan required under subsection (a).
D
Other matters
331.
Defense Siting Clearinghouse
(a)
Codification
Chapter 7
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 183
the following new section:
183a.
Defense Siting Clearinghouse for review of mission obstructions
(a)
Establishment
(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a Defense Siting Clearinghouse (in this section referred to as the
Clearinghouse
).
(2)
The Clearinghouse shall be—
(A)
organized under the authority, direction, and control of an Assistant Secretary of Defense designated by the Secretary; and
(B)
assigned such personnel and resources as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry out this section.
(b)
Functions
(1)
The Clearinghouse shall coordinate Department of Defense review of applications for energy projects filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49 and received by the Department of Defense from the Secretary of Transportation.
(2)
The Clearinghouse shall accelerate the development of planning tools necessary to determine the acceptability to the Department of Defense of proposals included in an application for an energy project submitted pursuant to such section.
(3)
The Clearinghouse shall perform such other functions as the Secretary of Defense assigns.
(c)
Review of proposed actions
(1)
Not later than 30 days after receiving from the Secretary of Transportation a proper application for an energy project under section 44718 of title 49 that may have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness, the Clearinghouse shall conduct a preliminary review of such application. The review shall—
(A)
assess the likely scope, duration, and level of risk of any adverse impact of such energy project on military operations and readiness; and
(B)
identify any feasible and affordable actions that could be taken by the Department, the developer of such energy project, or others to mitigate the adverse impact and to minimize risks to national security while allowing the energy project to proceed with development.
(2)
If the Clearinghouse determines under paragraph (1) that an energy project will have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness, the Clearinghouse shall issue to the applicant a notice of presumed risk that describes the concerns identified by the Department in the preliminary review and requests a discussion of possible mitigation actions.
(3)
At the same time that the Clearinghouse issues to the applicant a notice of presumed risk under paragraph (2), the Clearinghouse shall provide the same notice to the governor of the State in which the project is located and request that the governor provide the Clearinghouse any comments the governor believes of relevance to the application. The Secretary of Defense shall consider the comments of the governor in the Secretary’s evaluation of whether the project presents an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States and shall include the comments with the determination provided to the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718(f) of title 49.
(4)
The Clearinghouse shall develop, in coordination with other departments and agencies of the Federal Government, an integrated review process to ensure timely notification and consideration of energy projects filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49 that may have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness.
(5)
The Clearinghouse shall establish procedures for the Department of Defense for the coordinated consideration of and response to a request for a review received from another Federal agency, a State government, an Indian tribal government, a local government, a landowner, or the developer of an energy project, including guidance to personnel at each military installation in the United States on how to initiate such procedures and ensure a coordinated Department response.
(6)
The Clearinghouse shall develop procedures for conducting early outreach to parties carrying out energy projects that could have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness and to clearly communicate to such parties actions being taken by the Department of Defense under this section. The procedures shall provide for filing by such parties of a project area and preliminary project layout at least one year before expected construction of any project proposed within a military training route or within line-of-sight of any air route surveillance radar or airport surveillance radar operated or used by the Department of Defense in order to provide adequate time for analysis and negotiation of mitigation options. Material marked as proprietary or competition sensitive by a party filing for this preliminary review shall be protected from public release by the Department of Defense.
(d)
Comprehensive review
(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall develop a comprehensive strategy for addressing the military impacts of projects filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49.
(2)
In developing the strategy required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
assess of the magnitude of interference posed by projects filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49;
(B)
for the purpose of informing preliminary reviews under subsection (c)(1) and early outreach efforts under subsection (c)(5), identify geographic areas selected as proposed locations for projects filed, or which may be filed in the future, with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49 where such projects could have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness and categorize the risk of adverse impact in such areas; and
(C)
specifically identify feasible and affordable long-term actions that may be taken to mitigate adverse impacts of projects filed, or which may be filed in the future, with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49, on military operations and readiness, including—
(i)
investment priorities of the Department of Defense with respect to research and development;
(ii)
modifications to military operations to accommodate applications for such projects;
(iii)
recommended upgrades or modifications to existing systems or procedures by the Department of Defense;
(iv)
acquisition of new systems by the Department and other departments and agencies of the Federal Government and timelines for fielding such new systems; and
(v)
modifications to the projects for which such applications are filed, including changes in size, location, or technology.
(e)
Department of defense determination of unacceptable risk
(1)
The Secretary of Defense may not object to an energy project filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49, except in a case in which the Secretary of Defense determines, after giving full consideration to mitigation actions identified pursuant to this section, that such project, in isolation or cumulatively with other projects, would result in an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States. Such a determination shall constitute a finding pursuant to section 44718(f) of title 49.
(2)
(A)
Not later than 30 days after making a determination of unacceptable risk under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on such determination and the basis for such determination. Such report shall include an explanation of the operational impact that led to the determination, a discussion of the mitigation options considered, and an explanation of why the mitigation options were not feasible or did not resolve the conflict. The Secretary of Defense may provide public notice through the Federal Register of the determination.
(B)
The Secretary of Defense shall notify the appropriate State agency of a determination made under paragraph (1).
(3)
The Secretary of Defense may only delegate the responsibility for making a determination of unacceptable risk under paragraph (1) to the Deputy Secretary of Defense, an under secretary of defense, or a deputy under secretary of defense.
(f)
Authority to accept contributions of funds
The Secretary of Defense is authorized to request and accept a voluntary contribution of funds from an applicant for a project filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49. Amounts so accepted shall remain available until expended for the purpose of offsetting the cost of measures undertaken by the Secretary of Defense to mitigate adverse impacts of such a project on military operations and readiness or to conduct studies of potential measures to mitigate such impacts.
(g)
Effect of Department of Defense hazard assessment
An action taken pursuant to this section shall not be considered to be a substitute for any assessment or determination required of the Secretary of Transportation under section 44718 of title 49.
(h)
Savings clause
Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect or limit the application of, or any obligation to comply with, any environmental law, including the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.).
(i)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
adverse impact on military operations and readiness
means any adverse impact upon military operations and readiness, including flight operations, research, development, testing, and evaluation, and training, that is demonstrable and is likely to impair or degrade the ability of the armed forces to perform their warfighting missions.
(2)
The term
energy project
means a project that provides for the generation or transmission of electrical energy.
(3)
The term
landowner
means a person that owns a fee interest in real property on which a proposed energy project is planned to be located.
(4)
The term
military installation
has the meaning given that term in section 2801(c)(4) of this title.
(5)
The term
military readiness
includes any training or operation that could be related to combat readiness, including testing and evaluation activities.
(6)
The term
military training route
means a training route developed as part of the Military Training Route Program, carried out jointly by the Federal Aviation Administration and the Secretary of Defense, for use by the armed forces for the purpose of conducting low-altitude, high-speed military training.
(7)
The term
unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States
means the construction, alteration, establishment, or expansion, or the proposed construction, alteration, establishment, or expansion, of a structure or sanitary landfill that would—
(A)
significantly endanger safety in air commerce, related to the activities of the Department of Defense;
(B)
significantly interfere with the efficient use and preservation of the navigable airspace and of airport traffic capacity at public-use airports, related to the activities of the Department of Defense; or
(C)
significantly impair or degrade the capability of the Department of Defense to conduct training, research, development, testing, and evaluation, and operations or to maintain military readiness.
.
(b)
Conforming and clerical amendments
(1)
Repeal of existing provision
Section 358 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
49 U.S.C. 44718
note) is repealed.
(2)
Cross-reference in title 49, United States Code
Section 44718(f) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting
and in accordance with section 183a(e) of title 10
after
conducted under subsection (b)
.
(3)
Reference to regulations
Section 44718(g) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking
211.3 of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 6, 2014
both places it appears and inserting
183a(i) of title 10
.
(4)
Table of sections amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 7
of title 10 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 183 the following new item:
183a. Defense Siting Clearinghouse for review of mission obstructions.
.
(c)
Applicability of existing rules and regulations
Notwithstanding the amendments made by subsection (a), any rule or regulation promulgated to carry out section 358 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
49 U.S.C. 44718
note), that is in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act shall continue in effect and apply to the extent such rule or regulation is consistent with the authority under section 183a of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), until such rule or regulation is otherwise amended or repealed.
332.
Temporary installation reutilization authority for arsenals, depots, and plants
(a)
Modified authority
In the case of a military manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant, the Secretary of the Army may authorize leases and contracts under section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, for a term of up to 25 years, notwithstanding subsection (b)(1) of such section, if the Secretary determines that a lease or contract of that duration will promote the national defense for the purpose of—
(1)
helping to maintain the viability of the military manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant and any military installations on which it is located;
(2)
eliminating, or at least reducing, the cost of Government ownership of the military manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant, including the costs of operations and maintenance, the costs of environmental remediation, and other costs; and
(3)
leveraging private investment at the military manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant through long-term facility use contracts, property management contracts, leases, or other agreements that support and advance the preceding purposes.
(b)
Delegation and review process
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Army may delegate the authority provided by this section to the commander of the major subordinate command of the Army that has responsibility for the military manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant or, if part of a larger military installation, the installation as a whole. The commander may approve a lease or contract under such authority on a case-by-case basis or a class basis.
(2)
Notice of approval
Upon any approval of a lease or contract by a commander pursuant to a delegation of authority under paragraph (1), the commander shall notify the Army real property manager and Congress of the approval.
(3)
Review period
Any lease or contract that is approved utilizing the delegation authority under paragraph (1) is subject to a 90-day hold period so that the Army real property manager may review the lease or contract pursuant to paragraph (4).
(4)
Disposition of review
If the Army real property manager disapproves of a contract or lease submitted for review under paragraph (3), the agreement shall be null and void upon transmittal by the real property manager to the delegating authority of a written disapproval, including a justification for such disapproval, within the 90-day hold period. If no such disapproval is transmitted within the 90-day hold period, the agreement shall be deemed approved.
(5)
Approval of revised agreement
If, not later than 60 days after receiving a disapproval under paragraph (4), the delegating authority submits to the Army real property manager a new contract or lease that addresses the concerns of the Army real property manager outlined in such disapproval, the new contract or lease shall be deemed approved unless the Army real property manager transmits to the delegating authority a disapproval of the new contract or lease within 30 days of such submission.
(c)
Military manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant defined
In this section, the term
military manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant
means a Government-owned, Government-operated defense plant of the Army that manufactures weapons, weapon components, or both.
(d)
Sunset
The authority under this section shall terminate at the close of September 30, 2020. Any contracts entered into on or before such date shall continue in effect according to their terms.
333.
Pilot program for operation and maintenance budget presentation
(a)
In general
Along with the budget for fiscal years 2019, 2020, and 2021 submitted by the President pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an annex for the following Operation and Maintenance sub-activity groups (SAG):
(1)
For the Army:
(A)
SAG 111 – Maneuver Units.
(B)
SAG 123 – Land Forces Depot Maintenance.
(C)
SAG 131 – Base Operations Support.
(D)
SAG 322 – Flight Training.
(2)
For the Navy:
(A)
SAG 1A5A – Aircraft Depot Maintenance.
(B)
SAG 1B1B – Mission and Other Ship Operations.
(C)
SAG 1B4B – Ship Depot Maintenance.
(D)
SAG BSS1 – Base Operating Support.
(3)
For the Marine Corps:
(A)
SAG 1A1A – Operational Forces.
(B)
SAG 1A3A – Depot Maintenance.
(C)
SAG 1B1B – Field Logistics.
(D)
SAG BSS1 – Base Operating Support.
(4)
For the Air Force:
(A)
SAG 011A – Primary Combat Forces.
(B)
SAG 011Y – Flying Hour Program.
(C)
SAG 011Z – Base Support.
(D)
SAG 021M – Depot Maintenance.
(b)
Elements
The annex required under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
(1)
A summary by appropriation account with subtotals for Department of Defense components.
(2)
A summary of each appropriation account by budget activity, activity group, and sub-activity group with budget activity and activity group subtotals and an appropriation total.
(3)
A detailed sub-activity group by program element and expense aggregate listing in budget activity and activity group sequence.
(4)
A rollup document by sub-activity group with accompanying program element funding with the PB-61 program element tags included.
(5)
A summary of each depot maintenance facility with information on workload, work force, sources of funding, and expenses similar to the exhibit on Mission Funded Naval Shipyards included with the 2012 Navy Budget Justification.
(6)
A summary of contractor logistics support for each program element, including a measure of workload and unit cost.
(c)
Formatting
The annex required under subsection (a) shall be formatted in accordance with relevant Department of Defense financial management regulations that provide guidance for budget submissions to Congress.
334.
Servicewomen's commemorative partnerships
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may provide not more than $5,000,000 in financial support for the acquisition, installation, and maintenance of exhibits, facilities, historical displays, and programs at military service memorials and museums that highlight the role of women in the military. The Secretary may enter into a contract, partnership, or grant with a non-profit organization for the purpose of performing such acquisition, installation, and maintenance.
(b)
Purposes
The contracts, partnerships, or grants shall be limited to serving the purposes of—
(1)
preserving the history of the 3,000,000 women who have served in the United States Armed Forces;
(2)
managing an archive of artifacts, historic memorabilia, and documents related to servicewomen;
(3)
maintaining a women veterans’ oral history program; and
(4)
conducting other educational programs related to women in service.
335.
Authority for agreements to reimburse States for costs of suppressing wildfires on State lands caused by Department of Defense activities under leases and other grants of access to State lands
Section 2691 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
The Secretary of Defense may, in any lease, permit, license, or other grant of access for use of lands owned by a State, agree to reimburse the State for the reasonable costs of the State in suppressing wildland fires caused by the activities of the Department of Defense under such lease, permit, license, or other grant of access.
.
336.
Repurposing and reuse of surplus Army firearms
(a)
Required transfer
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of the Army shall transfer to Rock Island Arsenal all excess firearms, related spare parts and components, small arms ammunition, and ammunition components currently stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, Alabama, that are no longer actively issued for military service and that are otherwise prohibited from commercial sale, or distribution, under Federal law.
(b)
Repurposing and reuse
The items specified for transfer under subsection (a) shall be melted and repurposed for military use as determined by the Secretary of the Army, including—
(1)
the reforging of new firearms or their components; and
(2)
force protection barriers and security bollards.
(c)
Items exempt from transfer
M–1 Garand, caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols, and caliber .22 rimfire rifles are not subject to the transfer requirement under subsection (a).
337.
Department of the Navy marksmanship awards
Section 40728 of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(i)
Authorized navy transfers
(1)
Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of the Navy may transfer to the corporation, in accordance with the procedures prescribed in this subchapter, M–1 Garand and caliber .22 rimfire rifles held within the inventories of the United States Navy and the United States Marine Corps and stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, Alabama, or Naval Surface Warfare Center, Crane, Indiana, as of the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.
(2)
The items specified for transfer under paragraph (1) shall be used as awards for competitors in marksmanship competitions held by the United States Marine Corps or the United States Navy and may not be resold.
.
E
Energy and Environment
341.
Authority to carry out environmental restoration activities at National Guard and Reserve locations
Section 2701(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Authority to carry out activities at National Guard and Reserve locations
The Secretary may carry out activities under this section at National Guard and Reserve locations.
.
342.
Special considerations for energy performance goals
Section 2911(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
and to reduce the future demand and the requirements for the use of energy
after
consumption of energy
;
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
to reduce the future demand and the requirements for the use of energy
and inserting
to enhance energy resilience to ensure the Department of Defense has the ability to prepare for and recover from energy disruptions that impact mission assurance on military installations
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(13)
Opportunities to leverage third-party financing to address installation energy needs.
.
343.
Centers for Disease Control study on health implications of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances
contamination in drinking water
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry and in consultation with the Department of Defense, shall—
(1)
commence a study on the human health implications of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) contamination in drinking water, ground water, and any other sources of water and relevant exposure vectors, including the cumulative human health implications of multiple types of PFAS contamination at levels above and below health advisory levels;
(2)
not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act (or 7 years after such date of enactment after providing notice to the appropriate congressional committees of the need for the delay)—
(A)
complete such study and make any appropriate recommendations; and
(B)
submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees on the results of such study; and
(3)
not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until submission of the report under paragraph (2)(B), submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the progress of the study.
(b)
Authorization of appropriations
(1)
Authorization
There is authorized to be appropriated $7,000,000 to carry out this section.
(2)
Offset
The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense by section 301 for operation and maintenance is hereby reduced by $7,000,000, with the amount of such decrease to be allocated to operation and maintenance, Navy, SAG BSIT, as specified in the funding tables in section 4301.
(c)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the congressional defense committees;
(2)
the Committee on Heath, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
(3)
the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives.
344.
Environmental oversight and remediation at Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage Facility
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage Facility located on Oahu, Hawaii is a national strategic asset that—
(A)
supports combatant commander theater security requirements;
(B)
supports contingency operations;
(C)
provides essential and timely support to the United States and allies’ military mobilizations and disaster response efforts in the Indo-Asia-Pacific and around the world; and
(D)
is routinely used to support normal transit of Navy and Air Force movements in the region;
(2)
the facility in its current form cannot be replicated anywhere else in the world;
(3)
moving the fuel to another storage facility in the Indo-Asia-Pacific would have implications for the United States military force structure in the State of Hawaii and put at risk billions of dollars in annual economic activity that the Armed Forces bring to the State of Hawaii;
(4)
if the facility were closed, the United States Armed Forces would be unable to support the National Military Strategy, including the goals of the United States Pacific Commander, and national security interests would be significantly undermined;
(5)
constant vigilance is required to ensure that facility degradation and fuel leaks do not pose a threat to the people of Hawaii, especially the drinking water on Oahu; and
(6)
despite its importance, the facility continues to face long-term challenges without robust and consistent funding that provides the Navy and the Defense Logistics Agency with the resources needed to improve the tanks and associated infrastructure.
(b)
Budget submissions
(1)
Annual budget justification
The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Navy, shall ensure that the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the Department of Defense budget for any fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) includes a description of how the Department will use funds to support any deliverables that the parties of the Administrative Order on Consent/Statement of Work have identified as necessary to mitigate and prevent fuel leaks at the Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage Facility on Oahu, Hawaii.
(2)
Future years Defense budget
The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Navy, shall ensure that each future-years defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of title 10, United States Code, describes how the Department will use funds to support any deliverables that the parties of the Administrative Order on Consent/Statement of Work have identified as necessary to mitigate and prevent fuel leaks at the Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage Facility on Oahu, Hawaii, in the period covered by the future-years defense program.
(c)
Administrative Order on Consent/Statement of Work defined
In this section, the term
Administrative Order on Consent/Statement of Work
means a legally enforceable agreement between the United States Department of the Navy (Navy), the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region 9, and the State of Hawaii Department of Health (DOH) that the parties voluntarily entered into on September 28, 2015 [EPA DKT NO. RCRA 7003–R9–2015–01/DOH DKT NO. 15–UST–EA–01].
IV
Military Personnel Authorizations
A
Active Forces
401.
End
strengths for active forces
The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel as of September 30, 2018, as follows:
(1)
The Army, 481,000.
(2)
The Navy, 327,900.
(3)
The Marine Corps, 186,000.
(4)
The Air Force, 325,100.
B
Reserve Forces
411.
End
strengths for Selected Reserve
(a)
In
general
The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 30, 2018, as follows:
(1)
The Army National Guard of the United States, 343,500.
(2)
The Army Reserve, 199,500.
(3)
The Navy Reserve, 59,000.
(4)
The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
(5)
The Air National Guard of the United States, 106,600.
(6)
The Air Force Reserve, 69,800.
(7)
The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
(b)
End strength
reductions
The end strengths prescribed by subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall be proportionately reduced by—
(1)
the total authorized strength of units organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which are on active duty (other than for training) at the end of the fiscal year; and
(2)
the total number of individual members not in units organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component who are on active duty (other than for training or for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their consent at the end of the fiscal year.
(c)
End strength
increases
Whenever units or individual members of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of such units and by the total number of such individual members.
412.
End
strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the reserves
Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 2018, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or training the reserve components:
(1)
The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,155.
(2)
The Army Reserve, 16,261.
(3)
The Navy Reserve, 10,101.
(4)
The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,261.
(5)
The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,260.
(6)
The Air Force Reserve, 3,588.
413.
End strengths for military technicians (dual status)
The minimum number of military technicians (dual status) as of the last day of fiscal year 2018 for the reserve components of the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, United States Code) shall be the following:
(1)
For the Army National Guard of the United States, 22,294.
(2)
For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
(3)
For the Air National Guard of the United States, 19,135.
(4)
For the Air Force Reserve, 8,880.
414.
Fiscal year
2018 limitation on number of non-dual status technicians
(a)
Limitations
(1)
National
Guard
The number of non-dual status technicians employed by the National Guard as of September 30, 2018, may not exceed the following:
(A)
For the Army National Guard of the United States, 0.
(B)
For the Air National Guard of the United States, 0.
(2)
Army
Reserve
The number of non-dual status technicians employed by the Army Reserve as of September 30, 2018, may not exceed 0.
(3)
Air Force
Reserve
The number of non-dual status technicians employed by the Air Force Reserve as of September 30, 2018, may not exceed 0.
(b)
Non-dual status
technicians defined
In this section, the term
non-dual status technician
has the meaning given that term in section 10217(a) of title 10, United States Code.
415.
Maximum number
of reserve personnel authorized to be on active duty for operational
support
During fiscal year 2018, the maximum number of members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, United States Code, is the following:
(1)
The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
(2)
The Army Reserve, 13,000.
(3)
The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
(4)
The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
(5)
The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
(6)
The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.
416.
Number of members of the National Guard on full-time duty in support of the reserves within the
National Guard Bureau
Within the personnel authorized by paragraphs (1) and (5) of section 412, the number of personnel under each such paragraph who may serve with the National Guard Bureau may not exceed the number equal to six percent of the number authorized by such paragraph.
C
Authorization of Appropriations
421.
Military
personnel
(a)
Authorization
of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4401.
(b)
Construction of
authorization
The authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal year 2018.
V
Military Personnel Policy
A
Officer Personnel Policy
501.
Clarification of baselines for authorized numbers of general and flag
officers on active duty and in joint duty assignments
(a)
Active-duty baseline
Subsection (h)(2) of section 526 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
the lower of
and all that follows and inserting
the statutory limit of general officers or flag officers of that armed force under subsection (a).
.
(b)
Joint duty assignment baseline
Subsection (i)(2) of such section is amended by striking
the lower of
and all that follows and inserting
the statutory limit on general officer and flag officer positions that are joint duty assignments under subsection (b)(1).
.
502.
Authority of promotion boards to recommend officers of particular merit be placed at the top of the
promotion list
(a)
Authority of promotion boards To recommend officers of particular merit Be placed at top of
promotion list
Section 616 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
(1)
In selecting the officers to be recommended for promotion, a selection board may, when authorized by the Secretary of the military department concerned, recommend officers of particular merit, from among those officers selected for promotion, to be placed at the top of the promotion list promulgated by the Secretary under section 624(a)(1) of this title.
(2)
The number of such officers placed at the top of the promotion list may not exceed the number equal to 20 percent of the maximum number of officers that the board is authorized to recommend for promotion in such competitive category. If the number determined under this subsection is less than one, the board may recommend one such officer.
(3)
No officer may be recommended to be placed at the top of the promotion list unless the officer receives the recommendation of at least a majority of the members of a board for such placement.
(4)
For the officers recommended to be placed at the top of the promotion list, the board shall recommend the order in which these officers should be promoted.
.
(b)
Officers of particular merit appearing at top of promotion list
Section 624(a)(1) of such title is amended by inserting
, except such officers of particular merit who were approved by the President and recommended by the board to be placed at the top of the promotion list under section 616(g) of this title as these officers shall be placed at the top of the promotion list in the order recommended by the board
after
officers on the active-duty list
.
503.
Clarification to exception for removal of officers from list of officers recommended for promotion
after 18 months without appointment
Section 629(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
the Senate is not able to obtain the information necessary
and inserting
the military department concerned is not able to obtain and provide to the Senate the information the Senate requires
.
504.
Flexibility in promotion of officers to positions of Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the
Marine Corps and Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy
(a)
Staff Judge Advocate to Commandant of the Marine Corps
Section 5046(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
after
(b)
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
If the Secretary of the Navy elects to convene a selection board under section 611(a) of this title to consider eligible officers for selection to appointment as Staff Judge Advocate, the Secretary may, in connection with such consideration for selection—
(A)
treat any section in chapter 36 of this title referring to promotion to the next higher grade as if such section referred to promotion to a higher grade; and
(B)
waive section 619(a)(2) of this title if the Secretary determines that the needs of the Marine Corps require the waiver.
.
(b)
Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy
Section 5149(a) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
If the Secretary of the Navy elects to convene a selection board under section 611(a) of this title to consider eligible officers for selection to appointment as Deputy Judge Advocate General, the Secretary may, in connection with such consideration for selection—
(A)
treat any section in chapter 36 of this title referring to promotion to the next higher grade as if such section referred to promotion to a higher grade; and
(B)
waive section 619(a)(2) of this title if the Secretary determines that the needs of the Navy require the waiver.
.
505.
Repeal of requirement for specification of number of officers who may be recommended for early
retirement by a Selective Early Retirement Board
Section 638a of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
by striking paragraph (1); and
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as paragraphs (1) through (3), respectively; and
(2)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
by striking paragraph (2); and
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively.
506.
Extension of service-in-grade waiver authority for voluntary retirement of certain general and flag
officers for purposes of enhanced flexibility in officer personnel
management
Section 1370(a)(2)(G) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
2017
and inserting
2025
.
507.
Inclusion of Principal Military Deputy to the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics among officers subject to repeal of statutory specification of general officer grade
Section 3016(b)(5)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
a lieutenant general
and inserting
an officer
.
508.
Clarification of effect of repeal of statutory specification of general or flag officer grade for
various positions in the Armed Forces
(a)
Retention of grade of incumbents in positions on effective date
Effective as of December 23, 2016, and as if included in the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) to which it relates, section 502 of that Act (130 Stat. 2102) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(tt)
Retention of grade of incumbents in positions on effective date
The grade of service of an officer serving as of the date of the enactment of this Act in a position whose statutory grade is affected by an amendment made by this section may not be reduced after that date by reason of such amendment as long as the officer remains in continuous service in such position after that date.
.
(b)
Clarifying amendment to Chief of Veterinary Corps of the Army repeal
Section 3084 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the last sentence.
509.
Grandfathering of retired grade of Assistant Judge Advocates General of the Navy as of repeal of statutory specification of general and flag officers grades in the Armed Forces
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding the amendments made by section 502(gg)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), the officer holding a position specified in subsection (b) as of December 23, 2016, in the grade of rear admiral (lower half) or brigadier general, as applicable, may be retired after that date in such grade with the retired pay of such grade (unless entitled to higher pay under another provision of law).
(b)
Specified positions
The positions specified in this subsection are the following:
(1)
The Assistant Judge Advocate General of the Navy provided for by section 5149(b) of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
The Assistant Judge Advocate General of the Navy provided for by section 5149(c) of title 10, United States Code.
510.
Service credit for cyberspace experience or advanced education upon original appointment as a
commissioned officer
(a)
Original appointment as a reserve officer
Section 12207 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(2), by inserting
or (e)
after
subsection (b)
;
(2)
by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) and (g), respectively;
(3)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection (e):
(e)
(1)
Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, if the Secretary of a military department determines that the number of commissioned officers with cyberspace-related experience or advanced education in reserve active-status in an armed force under the jurisdiction of such Secretary is critically below the number needed, such Secretary may credit any person receiving an original appointment as a reserve commissioned officer with a period of constructive service for the following:
(A)
Special experience or training in a particular cyberspace-related field if such experience or training is directly related to the operational needs of the armed force concerned.
(B)
Any period of advanced education in a cyberspace-related field beyond the baccalaureate degree level if such advanced education is directly related to the operational needs of the armed force concerned.
(2)
Constructive service credited an officer under this subsection shall not exceed one year for each year of special experience, training, or advanced education, and not more than three years total constructive service may be credited.
(3)
Constructive service credited an officer under this subsection is in addition to any service credited that officer under subsection (a) and shall be credited at the time of the original appointment of the officer.
(4)
The authority to award constructive service credit under this subsection expires on December 31, 2023.
; and
(4)
in subsection (f), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by striking
or (d)
and inserting
, (d), or (e)
.
(b)
Extension of authority in connection with original appointment of regular officers
Section 533(g)(4) of such title is amended by striking
December 31, 2018
and inserting
December 31, 2023
.
510A.
Authority for officers to opt-out of promotion board consideration
(a)
Active-duty list officers
Section 619 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
An officer excluded under subsection (e).
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(e)
Authority to permit officers to opt out of selection board consideration
The Secretary of Defense may authorize the Secretary of a military department to provide that an officer under the jurisdiction of that Secretary may, upon the officer's request and with the approval of the Secretary concerned, be excluded from consideration by a selection board convened under section 611(a) of this title to consider officers for promotion to the next higher grade. The Secretary concerned may only approve such a request if—
(1)
the basis for the request is to allow an officer to complete a broadening assignment, advanced education, another assignment of significant value to the Department of Defense, or a career progression requirement delayed by the assignment of education;
(2)
the Secretary concerned determines the exclusion from consideration is in the best interest of the military department concerned; and
(3)
the officer has not previously failed of selection for promotion to the grade for which the officer requests the exclusion from consideration.
.
(b)
Reserve active-status list officers
Section 14301 of such title is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
in the subsection heading, by striking
previously selected officers not eligible
and inserting
certain officers not
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
An officer excluded under subsection (j).
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(j)
Authority to permit officers to opt out of selection board consideration
The Secretary of Defense may authorize the Secretary of a military department to provide that an officer under the jurisdiction of that Secretary may, upon the officer's request and with the approval of the Secretary concerned, be excluded from consideration by a selection board convened under section 14101(a) of this title to consider officers for promotion to the next higher grade. The Secretary concerned may only approve such a request if—
(1)
the basis for the request is to allow an officer to complete a broadening assignment, advanced education, another assignment of significant value to the Department of Defense, or a career progression requirement delayed by the assignment or education;
(2)
the Secretary concerned determines the exclusion from consideration is in the best interest of the military department concerned; and
(3)
the officer has not previously failed of selection for promotion to the grade for which the officer requests the exclusion from consideration.
.
510B.
Reauthorization of authority to order retired members to active duty in high-demand, low-density
assignments
Section 688a(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
after December 21, 2011.
and inserting “outside a period as follows:
(1)
The period beginning on December 2, 2002, and ending on December 31, 2011.
(2)
The period beginning on the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 and ending on December 31, 2022.
.
B
Reserve Component Management
511.
Consolidation of authorities to order members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces to
perform duty
Section 515 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 810) is amended—
(1)
in the second sentence of subsection (b), by striking
such legislation as would be necessary to amend titles 10, 14, 32, and 37 of the United States Code and other provisions of law in order to implement the Secretary's approach by October 1, 2018
and inserting
legislation implementing the alternate approach by April 30, 2019
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(c)
Attributes of alternate approach
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure the alternate approach described in subsection (b)—
(1)
reduces the number of statutory authorities by which members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces may be ordered to perform duty to not more than 8 statutory authorities grouped into 4 duty categories to which specific pay and benefits may be aligned, which categories shall include—
(A)
one duty category that shall generally reflect active service performed in support of contingency type operations or other military actions in support of the commander of a combatant command;
(B)
a second duty category that shall—
(i)
generally reflect active service not described in subparagraph (A); and
(ii)
consist of training, administration, operational support, and full-time support of the reserve components;
(C)
a third duty category that shall—
(i)
generally reflect duty performed under direct military supervision while not in active service; and
(ii)
include duty characterized by partial-day service; and
(D)
a fourth duty category that shall—
(i)
generally reflect remote duty completed while not under direct military supervision; and
(ii)
include completion of correspondence courses and telework;
(2)
distinguishes among duty performed under titles 10, 14, and 32, United States Code, and ensures that the reasons the members of the reserve components are utilized under the statutory authorities which exist prior to the alternate approach are preserved and can be tracked as separate and distinct purposes;
(3)
minimizes, to the maximum extent practicable, disruptions in pay and benefits for members, and adheres to the principle that a member should receive pay and benefits commensurate with the nature and performance of the member’s duties;
(4)
ensures the Secretary has the flexibility to meet emerging requirements and to effectively manage the force; and
(5)
aligns Department of Defense programming and budgeting to the types of duty members perform.
.
512.
Establishment of Office of Complex Investigations within the National Guard Bureau
(a)
Establishment
Chapter 1101
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
10509.
Office of Complex Investigations
(a)
In general
There is in the National Guard Bureau an Office of Complex Investigations (in this section referred to as the
Office
) under the authority, direction, and control of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau.
(b)
Disposition and functions
The Office shall be organized, trained, equipped, and managed to conduct administrative investigations in order to assist the States in the organization, maintenance, and operation of the National Guard as follows:
(1)
In investigations of allegations of sexual assault involving members of the National Guard.
(2)
In investigations in circumstances involving members of the National Guard in which other law enforcement agencies within the Department of Defense do not have, or have limited, jurisdiction or authority to investigate.
(3)
In investigations in such other circumstances involving members of the National Guard as the Chief of the National Guard Bureau may direct.
(c)
Scope of investigative authority
Individuals performing investigations described in subsection (b)(1) are authorized—
(1)
to have access to all records, reports, audits, reviews, documents, papers, recommendations, or other material available to the applicable establishment which relate to programs and operations with respect to the National Guard; and
(2)
to request such information or assistance as may be necessary for carrying out those duties from any Federal, State, or local governmental agency or unit thereof.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 1101 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
10509. Office of Complex Investigations.
.
C
General Service Authorities
516.
Report on policies for regular and reserve officer career management
(a)
Report required
Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the results of a review, undertaken by the Secretary for purposes of the report, of the policies of the Department of Defense for the career management of regular and reserve officers of the Armed Forces pursuant to the Defense Officer Personnel Management Act (commonly referred to as
DOPMA
) and the Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act (commonly referred to as
ROPMA
).
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include recommendations for the following:
(1)
Mechanisms to increase the ability of officers to repeatedly transition between active duty and reserve active-status throughout the course of their military careers.
(2)
Mechanisms to provide the Armed Forces additional flexibility in managing the populations of officers in the grades of major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel and Navy grades of lieutenant commander, commander, and captain.
(3)
Mechanisms to use the modernized retirement system provided by part I of subtitle D of title VI of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
) to encourage officers to pursue careers of lengths that vary from the traditional 20-year military career.
(4)
Mechanisms to provide for alternative career tracks for officers that encourage and facilitate the recruitment and retention of officers with technical expertise.
(5)
Mechanisms for a career and promotion path for officers in cyber-related specialties.
(6)
Mechanism to ensure the officer corps does not become disproportionately weighted toward officers serving in the grades of major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel and Navy grades of lieutenant commander, commander, and captain.
(7)
Any other mechanisms or matters the Secretary considers appropriate to improve the effective recruitment, management, and retention of regular and reserve officers of the Armed Forces.
(c)
Scope of report
If any recommendation of the Secretary in the report required by subsection (a) requires legislative or administrative action for implementation, the report shall include a proposal for legislative action, or a description of administrative action, as applicable, to implement such recommendation.
517.
Responsibility of Chiefs of Staff of the Armed Forces for standards and qualifications for military
specialties within the Armed Forces
(a)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (d), responsibility within an Armed Force for establishing, approving, and modifying the criteria, standards, and qualifications for military speciality codes within that Armed Force shall be vested solely in the Chief of Staff of that Armed Force.
(b)
Military specialty codes
For purposes of this section, a military specialty code is as follows:
(1)
A Military Occupational Speciality Code (MOS) and any other military specialty or military occupational specialty of the Army, in the case of the Army.
(2)
A Naval Enlisted Code (NEC), Unrestricted Duty code, Restricted Duty code, Restricted Line duty code, Staff Corps code, Limited Duty code, Warrant Officer code, and any other military specialty or military occupational specialty of the Navy, in the case of the Navy.
(3)
An Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) and any other military specialty or military occupational specialty of the Air Force, in the case of the Air Force.
(4)
A Military Occupational Speciality Code (MOS) and any other military specialty or military occupational specialty of the Marine Corps, in the case of the Marine Corps.
(c)
Chief of Staff for Marine Corps
For purposes of this section, the Commandant of the Marine Corps shall be deemed to be the Chief of Staff of the Marine Corps.
(d)
Gender integration
Nothing in this section shall be construed to terminate, alter, or revise the authority of the Secretary of Defense to establish, approve, modify, or otherwise regulate gender-based criteria, standards, and qualifications for military specialties within the Armed Forces.
518.
Confidential review of characterization of terms of discharge of members of the Armed Forces who
are survivors of
sexual assault
(a)
Codification of current confidential process
(1)
Codification
Chapter 79
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1554a
a new section 1554b consisting of—
(A)
a heading as follows:
1554b.
Confidential review of characterization of terms of discharge of members of the armed forces who are survivors of sex-related offenses
; and
(B)
a text consisting of the text of section 547 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3375;
10 U.S.C. 1553
note).
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 79 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1554a the following new item:
1554b. Confidential review of characterization of terms of discharge of members of the armed forces
who are survivors of sex-related offenses.
.
(3)
Conforming repeal
Section 547 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 is repealed.
(b)
Terminology
Subsection (a) of section 1554b of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, is amended by striking
victim
each place it appears and inserting
survivor
.
(c)
Clarification of applicability to individuals who allege they were a survivor of a sex-related
offense during military service
Subsection (a) of such section 1554b, as so added, is further amended by inserting after
sex-related offense
the following:
, or alleges that the individual was the survivor of a sex-related offense,
.
(d)
Conforming amendments
Such section 1554b, as so added, is further amended—
(1)
by striking
Armed Forces
each place it appears in subsections (a) and (b) and inserting
armed forces
;
(2)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by striking
boards for the correction of military records of the military department concerned
and inserting
boards of the military department concerned established in accordance with this chapter
; and
(B)
by striking
such an offense
and inserting
a sex-related offense
;
(3)
in subsection (b), by striking
boards for the correction of military records
and inserting
boards of the military department concerned established in accordance with this chapter
; and
(4)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
title 10, United States Code
and inserting
this title
; and
(B)
in paragraphs (2) and (3), by striking
such title
and inserting
this title
.
519.
Improvements to certain authorities and procedures of discharge review boards
(a)
Repeal of 15-year statute of limitations on motions or requests for review
Subsection (a) of section 1553 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the second sentence.
(b)
Telephonic presentation of evidence
Subsection (c) of such section is amended in the second sentence by striking
or by affidavit
and inserting
, by affidavit, or by telephone or video conference (to the extent reasonable and technically feasible)
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2018.
520.
Public availability of information related to disposition of claims regarding discharge or release of members of the Armed Forces when the claims involve sexual assault
(a)
Boards for the correction of military records
Section 1552(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
The number and disposition of claims decided during the calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which such information is made available in which sexual assault is alleged to have contributed, whether in whole or in part, to the original characterization of the discharge or release of the claimant.
.
(b)
Discharge review boards
Section 1553(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
The number and disposition of claims decided during the calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which such information is made available in which sexual assault is alleged to have contributed, whether in whole or in part, to the original characterization of the discharge or release of the former member.
.
D
Military Justice Matters
521.
Revision to Manual for Courts-Martial with respect to dissemination of visual depictions of
private areas or sexually explicit conduct without the consent of the
person depicted
(a)
Requirement To enumerate offense for purposes of general punitive article
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, part IV of the Manual for Courts-Martial shall be amended to include as an enumerated offense under section 934 of title 10, United States Code (article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), the distribution of a visual depiction of the private area of a person or of sexually explicit conduct involving a person that was—
(1)
photographed, videotaped, filmed, or recorded by any means with the consent of such person; and
(2)
distributed by another person who knew or should have known that the depicted person did not consent to such distribution.
(b)
Private area defined
In this section, the term
private area
has the meaning given the term in section 920c(d) of title 10, United States Code (article 120c(d) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
522.
Technical and conforming amendments in connection with reform of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice
(a)
Articles 1, 6
b
, and 137
(1)
Section 801 of title 10, United States Code (article 1 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking
chapter:
and inserting
chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice):
.
(2)
Section 806b(b) of title 10, United States Code (article 6b(b) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking
(the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
.
(3)
Section 937 of title 10, United States Code (article 137 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5503 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is further amended by striking
(the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
each place it appears as follows:
(A)
In subsection (a)(1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A).
(B)
In subsection (b), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A).
(C)
In subsection (d), in the matter preceding paragraph (1).
(b)
Article 6
b
Section 806b(e)(3) of title 10, United States Code (article 6b(e)(3) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended—
(1)
by inserting after
President,
the following:
subject to section 830a of this title (article 30a).
;
(2)
by striking
and, to the extent practicable,
and inserting
To the extent practicable, such a petition
; and
(3)
by striking
before the court.
and inserting
before the Court of Criminal Appeals.
.
(c)
Article 30
a
Subsection (a)(1) of section 830a of title 10, United States Code (article 30a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
, or otherwise act on,
after
to review
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
Pre-referral matters under subsections (c) and (e) of section 806b of this title (article 6b).
.
(d)
Article 39
Subsection (a)(4) of section 839 of title 10, United States Code (article 39 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5222(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is amended by striking
in non-capital cases unless the accused requests sentencing by members under section 825 of this title (article 25)
and inserting
under section 853(b)(1) of this title (article 53(b)(1))
.
(e)
Article 43
Subsection (i) of section 843 of title 10, United States Code (article 43 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5225(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is amended by striking
Dna Evidence
.—
and inserting
DNA Evidence
.—
.
(f)
Article 48
Subsection (c)(1) of section 848 of title 10, United States Code (article 48 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5230 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by striking
section 866(g) of this title (article 66(g))
and inserting
section 866(h) of this title (article 66(h))
.
(g)
Article 53
Subsection (b)(1)(B) of section 853 of title 10, United States Code (article 53 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5236 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by striking
in a trial
.
(h)
Article 53
a
Subsection (d) of section 853a of title 10, United States Code (article 53a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5237 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is amended by striking
military judge
the second place it appears and inserting
court-martial
.
(i)
Article 56
Subsection (d)(1) of section 856 of title 10, United States Code (article 56 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5301 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting after
concerned,
the following:
under standards and procedures set forth in regulations prescribed by the President,
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting after
(B)
the following:
as determined in accordance with standards and procedures prescribed by the President,
.
(j)
Article 58
a
(1)
Subsection (a) of section 858a of title 10, United States Code (article 58a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5303(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended in the matter after paragraph (3) by inserting after
reduces
the following:
, if such a reduction is authorized by regulation prescribed by the President,
.
(2)
The heading of such section (article) is amended to read as follows:
858a. Art 58a.
Sentences: reduction in enlisted grade
.
(k)
Article 58
b
Subsection (b) of section 858b of title 10, United States Code (article 58b of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended in the first sentence by striking
section 860 of this title (article 60)
and inserting
section 860a or 860b of this title (article 60a or 60b)
.
(l)
Article 62
Subsection (b) of section 862 of title 10, United States Code (article 62 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking
, notwithstanding section 866(c) of this title (article 66(c))
.
(m)
Article 63
Subsection (b) of section 863 of title 10, United States Code (article 63 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5327 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting
, subject to such limitations as the President may prescribe by regulation.
.
(n)
Article 64
Subsection (a) of section 864 of title 10, United States Code (article 64 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5328(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by striking
(a) (a)
In general
.—
and inserting
(a)
In general
.—
.
(o)
Article 65
Subsection (b)(1) of section 865 of title 10, United States Code (article 65 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5329 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by striking
section 866(b)(2) of this title (article 66(b)(2))
and inserting
section 866(b)(3) of this title (article 66(b)(3))
.
(p)
Article 66
Subsection (e)(2)(C) of section 866 of title 10, United States Code (article 66 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5330 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by inserting after
required
the following:
by regulation prescribed by the President or
.
(q)
Article 69
Subsection (c)(1)(A) of section 869 of title 10, United States Code (article 69 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by inserting a comma after
in part
.
(r)
Article 82
Subsection (b) of section 882 of title 10, United States Code (article 82 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5403 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by striking
section 99
and inserting
section 899
.
(s)
Article 103
a
Section 8312(b)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
article 106a
and inserting
article 103a
.
(t)
Article 119
a
Subsection (b) of section 919a of title 10, United States Code (article 119a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5401(13)(B) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended—
(1)
by striking
928a, 926, and 928
and inserting
926, 928, and 928a
; and
(2)
by striking
128a 126, and 128
and inserting
126, 128, and 128a
.
(u)
Article 120
Subsection (g)(2) of section 920 of title 10, United States Code (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5430(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended in the first sentence by striking
brest
and inserting
breast
.
(v)
Article 128
Subsection (b)(2) of section 928 of title 10, United States Code (article 128 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5441 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by striking the comma after
substantial bodily harm
.
(w)
Article 132
Subsection (b)(2) of section 932 of title 10, United States Code (article 132 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5450 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is amended by striking
section 1034(h)
and inserting
section 1034(j)
.
(x)
Article 146
Subsection (f) of section 946 of title 10, United States Code (article 146 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5521 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2), by striking the sentence beginning
Not later than
and inserting the following new sentence:
The analysis under this paragraph shall be included in the assessment required by paragraph (1).
; and
(2)
by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following new paragraph (5):
(5)
Reports
With respect to each review and assessment under this subsection, the Panel shall submit a report to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives. Each report—
(A)
shall set forth the results of the review and assessment concerned, including the findings and recommendations of the Panel; and
(B)
shall be submitted not later than December 31 of the calendar year in which the review and assessment is concluded.
.
(y)
Tables of sections
(1)
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter II of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5541(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended in the items relating to sections 810 and 812 (articles 10 and 12) by striking
Art.
.
(2)
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter V of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5541(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended—
(A)
by striking
825.
the second place it appears and inserting
825a.
; and
(B)
in the items relating to sections 825a, 826a, and 829 (articles 25a, 26a, and 29), by striking
Art.
.
(3)
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter VI of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5541(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended—
(A)
by striking
830.
the second place it appears and inserting
830a.
; and
(B)
in the items relating to sections 830a and 832 through 835 (articles 30a and 32 through 35), by striking
Art.
.
(4)
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter VII of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5541(4) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended in the items relating to sections 846 through 848, 850, 852, 853, and 853a (articles 46 through 48, 50, 52, 53, and 53a) by striking
Art.
.
(5)
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter VIII of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5541(5) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by striking the item relating to section 858a (article 58a) and inserting the following new item:
858a. 58a. Sentences: reduction in enlisted grade.
.
(6)
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter IX of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5541(6) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended in the items relating to sections 860 through 861, 864 through 866, and 869 (articles 60 through 61, 64 through 66, and 69) by striking
Art.
.
(7)
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter X of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5452 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended—
(A)
in the items relating to sections 877 through 934 (articles 77 through 134), by striking
Art.
;
(B)
in the item relating to section 887a (article 87a), by striking
Resistence
and inserting
Resistance
;
(C)
in the item relating to section 908 (article 108), by striking
of the United States–Loss
and inserting
of United States–Loss,
; and
(D)
in the item relating to section 909 (article 109), by striking
of the
and inserting
of
.
(8)
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter XI of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5541(7) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended in the items relating to sections 936 and 940a (articles 136 and 140a) by striking
Art.
.
(9)
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter XII of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5541(8) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended in the items relating to sections 946 and 946a (articles 146 and 146a) by striking
Art.
.
(z)
Other provisions of title 10 in connection with UCMJ reform
(1)
Section 673(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
section 920, 920a, or 920c of this title (article 120, 120a, or 120c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
and inserting
section 920, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 120c, or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
.
(2)
Section 674(a) of such title is amended by striking
section 920, 920a, 920b, 920c, or 925 of this title (article 120, 120a, 120b, 120c, or 125 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
and inserting
section 920, 920b, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 120b, 120c, or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
.
(3)
Section 1034(c)(2)(A) of such title is amended by striking
sections 920 through 920c of this title (articles 120 through 120c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
and inserting
section 920, 920b, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 120b, 120c, or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
.
(4)
Section 1044e(g)(1) of such title is amended by striking
section 920, 920a, 920b, 920c, or 925 of this title (article 120, 120a, 120b, 120c, or 125 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
and inserting
section 920, 920b, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 120b, 120c, or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
.
(5)
Section 1059(e) of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (1)(A)(ii), by striking
the approval of
and all that follows through
as approved,
and inserting
entry of judgment under section 860c of this title (article 60c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) if the sentence
; and
(B)
in paragraph (3)(A), by striking
by a court-martial
the second place it appears and all that follows through
include any such punishment,
and inserting
for a dependent-abuse offense and the conviction is disapproved or is otherwise not part of the judgment under section 860c of this title (article 60c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) or the punishment is disapproved or is otherwise not part of the judgment under such section (article),
.
(6)
Section 1408(h)(10)(A) of such title is amended by striking
the approval
and all that follows and inserting
entry of judgment under section 860c of this title (article 60c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
.
(aa)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by division E of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, as provided for in section 5542 of that Act.
523.
Priority of review by Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces of decisions of Courts of Criminal
Appeals on petitions for enforcement of victims' rights
(a)
Priority
Section 806b(e)(3) of title 10, United States Code (article 6b(e)(3) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 522(b) of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
Review of any decision on such a petition by the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces shall have priority in the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, as determined under the rules of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect immediately after the coming into effect of the following (in the order specified):
(1)
The amendments made by division E of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), as provided for in section 5542 of that Act.
(2)
The amendments made by section 522(b) of this Act, as provided in section 522(aa) of this Act.
524.
Assistance of defense counsel in additional post-trial matters for accused convicted by court-martial
(a)
Assistance
Subsection (c)(2) of section 838 of title 10, United States Code (article 38 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking
section 860 of this title (article 60)
and inserting
section 860, 860a, or 860b of this title (article 60, 60a, or 60b)
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by division E of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), as provided for in section 5542 of that Act.
525.
Enumeration of additional limitations on acceptance of plea agreements by military judges of
general or special courts-martial
(a)
In general
Subsection (b) of section 853a of title 10, United States Code (article 53a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5237 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2), by striking
or
after the semicolon;
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking the period and inserting a semicolon; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(4)
is prohibited by law; or
(5)
is contrary to, or is inconsistent with, a regulation prescribed by the President with respect to terms, conditions, or other aspects of plea agreements.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by division E of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, as provided for in section 5542 of that Act.
526.
Additional proceedings by Courts of Criminal Appeals by order of United States Court of Appeals for
the Armed Forces
(a)
In general
Subsection (f)(3) of section 866 of title 10, United States Code (article 66 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5330 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is further amended—
(1)
by inserting after
Court
the first place it appears the following:
of Criminal Appeals
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new sentence:
If the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces determines that additional proceedings are warranted, the Court of Criminal Appeals shall order a hearing or other proceeding in accordance with the direction of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by division E of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, as provided for in section 5542 of that Act.
527.
Clarification of applicability and effective dates for statute of limitations amendments in
connection with Uniform Code of Military Justice Reform
(a)
Applicability of certain amendments
Effective as of December 23, 2016, and immediately after the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), to which such amendment relates, section 5225(f) of that Act is amended by striking
this subsection
and inserting
this section
.
(b)
Child abuse offenses
With respect to offenses committed before the date designated by the President under section 5542(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, subsection (b)(2)(B) of section 843 of title 10, United States Code (article 43 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), shall be applied as in effect on December 22, 2016.
(c)
Fraudulent enlistment or appointment offenses
With respect to the period beginning on the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 and ending on the day before the date designated by the President under section 5542(a) of that Act, in the application of subsection (h) of section 843 of title 10, United States Code (article 43 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5225(b) of that Act, the reference in such subsection (h) to section 904a(1) of title 10, United States Code (article 104a(1) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), shall be deemed to be a reference to section 883(1) of title 10, United States Code (article 83(1) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
528.
Modification of year of initial review by Military Justice Review Panel of Uniform Code of Military
Justice reform amendments
(a)
In general
Subsection (f)(1) of section 946 of title 10, United States Code (article 146 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 5521 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is further amended by striking
fiscal year 2020
and inserting
fiscal year 2021
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by division E of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, as provided for in section 5542 of that Act.
529.
Clarification of applicability of certain provisions of law to civilian judges of the United States
Court of Military Commission Review
Section 950f(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
(A)
For purposes of sections 203, 205, 207, 208, and 209 of title 18, the term
special Government employee
shall include a judge of the Court appointed under paragraph (3).
(B)
A person appointed as a judge of the Court under paragraph (3) shall be considered to be an officer or employee of the United States with respect to such person's status as a judge, but only during periods in which such person is performing the duties of such a judge. Any provision of law that prohibits or limits the political or business activities of an employee of the United States shall only apply to such a judge during such periods.
.
530.
Enhancement of effective prosecution and defense in courts-martial and related matters
(a)
Additional element in program for effective prosecution and defense
Subsection (a)(1) of section 542 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2126;
10 U.S.C. 827
note) is amended by inserting before the semicolon the following:
or there is adequate supervision and oversight of trial counsel and defense counsel so detailed to ensure effective prosecution and defense in the court-martial
.
(b)
Assignment of civilian employees to supervise less experienced judge advocates in
prosecution and defense
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection (c):
(c)
Assignment of civilian employees to supervise less experienced judge advocates in prosecution and defense
(1)
Assignment authorized
The Secretary concerned may assign the function of supervising and overseeing prosecution or defense in courts-martial by less experienced judge advocates to civilian employees of the military department concerned or the Department of Homeland Security, as applicable, who have extensive litigation expertise.
(2)
Status as supervisor
A civilian employee assigned to supervise and oversee the prosecution or defense in a court-martial pursuant to this subsection is not required to be detailed to the case, but must be reasonably available for consultation during court-martial proceedings.
.
(c)
Pilot programs on professional developmental process for judge advocates
Subsection (d) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), striking
establishing
and all that follows and inserting
a military justice career track for judge advocates under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph (4):
(4)
Elements
Each pilot program shall include the following:
(A)
A military justice career track for judge advocates that leads to judge advocates with military justice expertise in the grade of colonel, or in the grade of captain in the case of judge advocates of the Navy.
(B)
The use of skill identifiers to identify judge advocates for participation in the pilot program from among judge advocates having appropriate skill and experience in military justice matters.
(C)
Guidance for promotion boards considering the selection for promotion of officers participating in the pilot program in order to ensure that judge advocates who are participating in the pilot program have the same opportunity for promotion as all other judge advocate officers being considered for promotion by such boards.
(D)
Such other matters as the Secretary concerned considers appropriate.
.
531.
Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces jurisdiction to review interlocutory appeals of decisions on certain petitions for writs of mandamus
Section 806b(e) of title 10, United States Code (article 6b(e) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
paragraph (4)
and inserting
paragraph (5)
;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph (4):
(4)
The Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces may review for legal error a grant or denial of a petition for a writ of mandamus under this subsection by the Court of Criminal Appeals, upon petition of a victim of an offense under this chapter or of the accused, and on good cause shown. Any such review shall, to the extent practicable, have priority over all other proceedings of the Court of Appeals.
.
532.
Punitive article on wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual images or visual images
of sexually explicit conduct under the Uniform
Code of Military Justice
(a)
Prohibition
Subchapter X of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 917
(article 117 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) the following new section (article):
917a.
Art. 117a. Wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual images
(a)
Prohibition
Any person subject to this chapter who—
(1)
knowingly and wrongfully broadcasts or distributes an intimate visual image of another person or a visual image of sexually explicit conduct involving a person who—
(A)
is at least 18 years of age at the time the intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct was created;
(B)
is identifiable from the intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct itself, or from information displayed in connection with the intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct; and
(C)
does not explicitly consent to the broadcast or distribution of the intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct;
(2)
knows or reasonably should have known that the intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct was made under circumstances in which the person depicted in the intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct retained a reasonable expectation of privacy regarding any broadcast or distribution of the intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct; and
(3)
knows or reasonably should have known that the broadcast or distribution of the intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct is likely—
(A)
to cause harm, harassment, intimidation, emotional distress, or financial loss for the person depicted in the intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct; or
(B)
to harm substantially the depicted person with respect to that person’s health, safety, business, calling, career, financial condition, reputation, or personal relationships,
is guilty of wrongful distribution of intimate visual images or visual images of sexually
explicit
conduct and shall be punished as a
court-martial may direct.
(b)
Definitions
In this section (article):
(1)
Broadcast
The term
broadcast
means to electronically transmit a visual image with the intent that it be viewed by a person or persons.
(2)
Distribute
The term
distribute
means to deliver to the actual or constructive possession of another person, including transmission by mail or electronic means.
(3)
Intimate visual image
The term
intimate visual image
means a visual image that depicts a private area of a person.
(4)
Private area
The term
private area
means the naked or underwear-clad genitalia, anus, buttocks, or female areola or nipple.
(5)
Reasonable expectation of privacy
The term
reasonable expectation of privacy
refers to circumstances in which a reasonable person would believe that an intimate visual image of the person, or a visual image of sexually explicit conduct involving the person, would not be broadcast or distributed to another person.
(6)
Sexually explicit conduct
The term
sexually explicit conduct
means actual or simulated genital-genital contact, oral-genital contact, anal-genital contact, or oral-anal contact, whether between persons of the same or opposite sex, bestiality, masturbation, or sadistic or masochistic abuse.
(7)
Visual image
The term
visual image
means the following:
(A)
Any developed or undeveloped photograph, picture, film or video.
(B)
Any digital or computer image, picture, film, or video made by any means, including those transmitted by any means, including streaming media, even if not stored in a permanent format.
(C)
Any digital or electronic data capable of conversion into a visual image.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter X of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 917 (article 117) the following new item:
917a. 117a. Wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual images.
.
E
Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience
541.
Ready, Relevant Learning initiative of the Navy
(a)
Certifications required
Not later than October 1, 2017, and each year thereafter, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a certification on the status of implementation of the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative of the Navy for each applicable enlisted rating.
(b)
Elements
Each certification under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A certification by the Commander of the United States Fleet Forces Command that the block learning and modernized delivery methods of the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative to be implemented during the fiscal year beginning in which such certification is submitted will meet or exceed the existing training delivery approach for all associated training requirements.
(2)
A certification by the Secretary that the content re-engineering necessary to meet all training objectives and transition from the traditional training curriculum to the modernized delivery format to be implemented during such fiscal year will be complete prior to such transition, including full functionality of all required course software and hardware.
(3)
A detailed cost estimate of transitioning to the block learning and modernized delivery approaches to be implemented during such fiscal year with funding listed by purpose, amount, appropriations account, budget program element or line item, and end strength adjustments.
(4)
A detailed phasing plan associated with transitioning to the block learning and modernized delivery approaches to be implemented during such fiscal year, including the current status, timing, and identification of reductions in
A
school and
C
school courses, curricula, funding, and personnel.
(5)
A certification by the Secretary that—
(A)
the contracting strategy associated with transitioning to the modernized delivery approach to be implemented during such fiscal year has been completed; and
(B)
contracting actions contain sufficient specification detail to enable a low risk approach to receiving the deliverable end item or items on-budget, on-schedule, and with satisfactory performance.
542.
Element in preseparation counseling for members of the Armed Forces on assistance and support
services for caregivers of certain veterans through the Department of
Veterans Affairs
(a)
In general
Section 1142(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(18)
A description, developed in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, of the assistance and support services for family caregivers of eligible veterans under the program conducted by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs pursuant to section 1720G of title 38, including the veterans covered by the program, the caregivers eligible for assistance and support through the program, and the assistance and support available through the program.
.
(b)
Participation of potential caregivers in appropriate preseparation counseling
(1)
In general
In accordance with procedures established by the Secretary of Defense, each Secretary of a military department shall take appropriate actions to achieve the following:
(A)
To determine whether each member of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of such Secretary who is undergoing preseparation counseling pursuant to section 1142 of title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), and who may require caregiver services after separation from the Armed Forces has identified an individual to provide such services after the member's separation.
(B)
In the case of a member described in subparagraph (A) who has identified an individual to provide caregiver services after the member's separation, at the election of the member, to permit such individual to participate in appropriate sessions of the member's preseparation counseling in order to inform such individual of—
(i)
the assistance and support services available to caregivers of members after separation from the Armed Forces; and
(ii)
the manner in which the member's transition to civilian life after separation may likely affect such individual as a caregiver.
(2)
Caregivers
For purposes of this subsection, individuals who provide caregiver services refers to individuals (including a spouse, partner, parent, sibling, adult child, other relative, or friend) who provide physical or emotional assistance to former members of the Armed Forces during and after their transition from military life to civilian life following separation from the Armed Forces.
(3)
Deadline for commencement
Each Secretary of a miliary department shall commence the actions required pursuant to this subsection by not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
543.
Discharge in the Selected Reserve of the commissioned service obligation of military service
academy graduates who participate in professional
athletics
(a)
United States Military Academy
Section 4348(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
That, if upon graduation the cadet obtains employment as a professional athlete in lieu of the acceptance of an appointment tendered under paragraph (2), the cadet—
(A)
will accept an appointment as a commissioned officer as a Reserve in the Army for service in the Army Reserve; and
(B)
will remain in that reserve component as a member of the Selected Reserve until completion of the commissioned service obligation of the cadet.
.
(b)
United States Naval Academy
Section 6959(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
That, if upon graduation the midshipman obtains employment as a professional athlete in lieu of the acceptance of an appointment tendered under paragraph (2), the midshipman—
(A)
will accept an appointment as a commissioned officer as a Reserve in the Navy for service in the Navy Reserve or the Marine Corps Reserve; and
(B)
will remain in that reserve component as a member of the Selected Reserve until completion of the commissioned service obligation of the midshipman.
.
(c)
United States Air Force Academy
Section 9348(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
That, if upon graduation the cadet obtains employment as a professional athlete in lieu of the acceptance of an appointment tendered under paragraph (2), the cadet—
(A)
will accept an appointment as a commissioned officer as a Reserve in the Air Force for service in the Air Force Reserve; and
(B)
will remain in that reserve component as a member of the Selected Reserve until completion of the commissioned service obligation of the cadet.
.
(d)
Application of amendments
The Secretaries of the military departments shall promptly revise the cadet and midshipman service agreements under sections 4348, 6959, and 9348 of title 10, United States Code, to reflect the amendments made by this section. The revised agreement shall apply to cadets and midshipmen who are attending the United States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, or the United States Air Force Academy on the date of the enactment of this Act and to persons who begin attendance at such military service academies on or after that date.
544.
Pilot programs on appointment in the excepted service in the Department of Defense of physically
disqualified former cadets and midshipmen
(a)
Pilot programs authorized
(1)
In general
Each Secretary of a military department may carry out a pilot program under which former cadets or midshipmen described in paragraph (2) (in this section referred to as
eligible individuals
) under the jurisdiction of such Secretary may be appointed by the Secretary of Defense in the excepted service under section 3320 of title 5, United States Code, in the Department of Defense.
(2)
Cadets and midshipmen
Except as provided in paragraph (3), a former cadet or midshipman described in this paragraph is any former cadet at the United States Military Academy or the United States Air Force Academy, and any former midshipman at the United States Naval Academy, who—
(A)
completed the prescribed course of instruction and graduated from the applicable service academy; and
(B)
is determined to be medically disqualified to complete a period of active duty in the Armed Forces prescribed in an agreement signed by such cadet or midshipman in accordance with section 4348, 6959, or 9348 of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Exception
A former cadet or midshipman whose medical disqualification as described in paragraph (2)(B) is the result of the gross negligence or misconduct of the former cadet or midshipman is not an eligible individual for purposes of appointment under a pilot program.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of the pilot programs is to evaluate the feasibility and advisability of permitting eligible individuals who cannot accept a commission or complete a period of active duty in the Armed Forces prescribed by the Secretary of the military department concerned to fulfill an obligation for active duty service in the Armed Forces through service as a civilian employee of the Department of Defense
(c)
Positions
(1)
In general
The positions to which an eligible individual may be appointed under a pilot program are existing positions within the Department of Defense in grades up to GS–9 under the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, United States Code (or equivalent). The authority in subsection (a) does not authorize the creation of additional positions, or create any vacancies to which eligible individuals may be appointed under a pilot program.
(2)
Term positions
Any appointment under a pilot program shall be to a position having a term of five years or less.
(d)
Scope of authority
(1)
Recruitment and retention of eligible individuals
The authority in subsection (a) may be used only to the extent necessary to recruit and retain on a non-competitive basis cadets and midshipmen who are relieved of an obligation for active duty in the Armed Forces due to becoming medically disqualified from serving on active duty in the Armed Forces, and may not be used to appoint any other individuals in the excepted service.
(2)
Voluntary acceptance of appointments
A pilot program may not be used as an implicit or explicit basis for compelling an eligible individual to accept an appointment in the excepted service in accordance with this section.
(e)
Relationship to repayment provisions
Completion of a term appointment pursuant to a pilot program shall relieve the eligible individual concerned of any repayment obligation under section 303a(e) or 373 of title 37, United States Code, with respect to the agreement of the individual described in subsection (b)(2)(B).
(f)
Termination
(1)
In general
The authority to appoint eligible individuals in the excepted service under a pilot program shall expire on the date that is four years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Effect on existing appointments
The termination by paragraph (1) of the authority in subsection (a) shall not affect any appointment made under that authority before the termination date specified in paragraph (1) in accordance with the terms of such appointment.
545.
Limitation on availability of funds for attendance of Air Force enlisted personnel at Air Force
officer
professional military education in-residence courses
(a)
Limitation
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise available for the Department of the Air Force may be obligated or expended for the purpose of the attendance of Air Force enlisted personnel at Air Force officer professional military education (PME) in-residence courses until the later of—
(1)
the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives, and to the Comptroller General of the United States, a report on the attendance of such personnel at such courses as described in subsection (b);
(2)
the date on which the Comptroller General submits to such committees the report setting forth an assessment of the report under paragraph (1) as described in subsection (c); or
(3)
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b)
Secretary of the Air Force report
The report of the Secretary described in subsection (a)(1) shall include the following:
(1)
The purpose of the attendance of Air Force enlisted personnel at Air Force officer professional military education in-residence courses.
(2)
The objectives for the attendance of such enlisted personnel at such officer professional military education courses.
(3)
The required prerequisites for such enlisted personnel to attend such officer professional military education courses.
(4)
The process for selecting such enlisted personnel to attend such officer professional military education courses.
(5)
The impact of the attendance of such enlisted personnel at such officer professional military education courses on the availability of officer allocations for the attendance of officers at such courses.
(6)
The impact of the attendance of such enlisted personnel at such officer professional military education courses on the morale and retention of officers attending such courses.
(7)
The resources required for such enlisted personnel to attend such officer professional military education courses.
(8)
The impact on unit and overall Air Force manning levels of the attendance of such enlisted personnel at such officer professional military education courses, especially at the statutorily-limited end strengths of grades E–8 and E–9.
(9)
The extent to which graduation by such enlisted personnel from such officer professional military education courses is a requirement for Air Force or joint assignments.
(10)
The planned assignment utilization for Air Force enlisted graduates of such officer professional military education courses.
(11)
Any other matters in connection with the attendance of such enlisted personnel at such officer professional military education courses that the Secretary considers appropriate.
(c)
Comptroller General of the United States report
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date the Secretary submits the report described in subsection (a)(1), the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on an assessment of the report by the Comptroller General. As soon as practicable after the briefing, the Comptroller General shall submit to such committees a report on such assessment for purposes of subsection (a)(2).
(2)
Elements
The report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An assessment of whether the conclusions and assertions included in the report of the Secretary under subsection (a) are comprehensive, fully supported, and sufficiently detailed.
(B)
An identification of any shortcomings, limitations, or other reportable matters that affect the quality of the findings or conclusions of the report of the Secretary.
546.
Pilot program on integration of Department of Defense and non-Federal efforts for civilian
employment of members of the Armed Forces following transition from
active duty to civilian life
(a)
Pilot program required
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a pilot program to assess the feasability and advisability of assisting members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (c) who are undergoing the transition from active duty in the Armed Forces to civilian life by accelerating and improving their access to employment following their transition to civilian life through the coordination, integration, and leveraging of existing programs and authorities of the Department of Defense for such purposes with programs and resources of State and local agencies, institutions of higher education, employers, and other public, private, and nonprofit entities applicable to the pilot program.
(2)
Existing community programs and resources
For purposes of this section, existing programs and resources of State and local agencies, institutions of higher education, employers, and other public, private, and nonprofit entities described in paragraph (1) in the vicinity of a location of the pilot program are referred to as the
existing community programs and resources
in that vicinity.
(b)
Goals
The goals of the pilot program shall be as follows:
(1)
To facilitate the coordination of existing community programs and resources in the locations of the pilot program in order to identify a model for the coordination of such programs and authorities that can be replicated nationwide in communities in which members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (c) are undergoing the transition from active duty to civilian life.
(2)
To identify mechanisms by which the Department of Defense and existing community programs and resources may work with employers and members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (c) in order to—
(A)
identify workforce needs that may be satisfiable by such members following their transition to civilian life;
(B)
identify military occupational skills that may satisfy the workforce needs identified pursuant to subparagraph (A); and
(C)
identify gaps in the training of members of the Armed Forces that may require remediation in order to satisfy workforce needs identified pursuant to subparagraph (A), and identify mechanisms by which members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (c) may receive training to remediate such gaps.
(3)
To identify mechanisms to assist members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (c) in bridging geographical gaps between their final military installations and nearby metropolitan areas in which employment and necessary training are likely to be available to such members during or following their transition to civilian life.
(c)
Covered members
The members of the Armed Forces described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Regular members of the Armed Forces who are within 180 days of discharge or release from the Armed Forces.
(2)
Members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces (whether National Guard or Reserve) who are on active duty for a period of more than 365 days and are within 180 days of release from such active duty.
(d)
Locations
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program at not less than five locations selected by the Secretary for purposes of the pilot program.
(2)
Selection requirements
Each location selected pursuant to paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
include a military installation—
(i)
that has a well-established military-civilian community relationship with the civilian communities nearby; and
(ii)
at which serves an appropriate population of members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (c);
(B)
have a large employment or industry base that supports a variety of occupational opportunities;
(C)
have appropriate institutional infrastructure for the provision of worker training; and
(D)
take place in a different geographic region of the United States.
(e)
Elements
At each location selected for the pilot program there shall be the following:
(1)
A mechanism to identify existing community programs and resources for participation in the pilot program, including programs and resources that are currently working with programs and authorities of the Department of Defense to assist members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (c), and, especially, programs and resources that are recognized as engaging in best practices in working with such programs and authorities of the Department.
(2)
A mechanism to assess the willingness of employers in the vicinity of such location to participate in the pilot program and employ members of the Armed Forces participating in the pilot program following their transition to civilian life.
(3)
A mechanism to assess the willingness of the State in which such location is located to recognize military training for credit for professional and occupational licenses.
(4)
A civilian community coordinator for the pilot program, who shall be responsible for implementation and execution of the pilot program for the Department, and for coordinating existing community programs and resources, at such location by—
(A)
pursuing a multi-faceted outreach and engagement strategy that leverages relationships with appropriate public, private, and nonprofit entities in the vicinity of such location for purposes of the pilot program;
(B)
developing and implementing a program using existing resources, infrastructure, and experience to maximize the benefits of the pilot program for members of the Armed Forces participating in the pilot program by minimizing the time required for completion of training provided to such members under the pilot program, which program shall—
(i)
compliment continuing Department efforts to assist members of the Armed Forces in their transition from active duty in the Armed Forces to civilian life and to coordinate with existing veteran employment programs for purposes of such efforts;
(ii)
provide for the cultivation of a network of partners among the entities described in subparagraph (A) in order to maximize the number of opportunities for civilian employment for members of the Armed Forces participating in the pilot program following their transition to civilian life;
(iii)
provide for the use of comprehensive assessments of the military experience gained by members of the Armed Forces participating in the pilot program in order to assist them in obtaining civilian employment relating to their military occupations following their transition to civilian life;
(iv)
seek to secure for members of the Armed Forces participating in the pilot program maximum credit for prior military service in their pursuit of civilian employment following their transition to civilian life;
(v)
seek to eliminate unnecessary and redundant elements of the training provided for purposes of the pilot program to members of the Armed Forces participating in the pilot program;
(vi)
seek to minimize the time required for members of the Armed Forces participating in the pilot program in obtaining skills, credentials, or certifications required for civilian employment following their transition to civilian life; and
(vii)
provide for the continuous collection of data and feedback from employers in the vicinity of such location in order to tailor training provided to members of the Armed Forces for purposes of the pilot program to meet the needs of such employers.
(5)
A plan of action for delivering additional training and credentialing modules for members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (c) in order to seek to provide such members with skills that are in high demand in the vicinity and region of such location.
(f)
Reports
(1)
Initial report
Not later than one year after the date of the commencement of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the pilot program. The report shall include, for each location selected for the pilot program pursuant to subsection (d), the following:
(A)
A full description of the pilot program, including—
(i)
the number of members of the Armed Forces participating in the pilot program;
(ii)
the outreach to public, private, and nonprofit entities conducted for purposes of the pilot program to encourage such entities to participate in the pilot program;
(iii)
the entities participating in the pilot program, set forth by employment sector;
(iv)
the number of members participating in the pilot program who obtained employment with an entity participating in the pilot program, set forth by employment sector;
(v)
a description of any additional training provided to members participating in the pilot program for purposes of the pilot program, including the amount of time required for such additional training; and
(vi)
a description of the cost of the pilot program.
(B)
A current assessment of the effect of the pilot program on Department of Defense and community efforts to assist members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (c) in obtaining civilian employment following their transition to civilian life.
(2)
Final report
Not later than 90 days before the date on which the pilot program terminates, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an update of the report submitted under paragraph (1).
(g)
Construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize the Secretary to hire additional employees for the Department of Defense to carry out the pilot program.
(h)
Termination
The authority of the Secretary to carry out the pilot program shall terminate on the date that is two years after the date on which the pilot program commences.
547.
Two-year extension of suicide prevention and resilience program for the National Guard and Reserves
Section 10219(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
October 1, 2018
and inserting
October 1, 2020
.
548.
Sexual assault prevention and response training for all individuals enlisted in the Armed Forces under a delayed entry program
(a)
Training required
Commencing not later than January 1, 2018, each Secretary concerned shall, insofar as practicable, provide training on sexual assault prevention and response to each individual under the jurisdiction of such Secretary who is enlisted in the Armed Forces under a delayed entry program such that each such individual completes such training before the date of commencement of basic training or initial active duty for training in the Armed Forces.
(b)
Elements
(1)
In general
The training provided pursuant to subsection (a) shall meet such requirements as the Secretary of Defense shall establish for purposes of this section. Such training shall, to the extent practicable, be uniform across the Armed Forces.
(2)
Sense of Congress on provision and nature of training
It is the sense of Congress that the training should—
(A)
be provided through in-person instruction, whenever possible; and
(B)
include instruction on the proper use of social media.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
delayed entry program
means the following:
(A)
The Future Soldiers Program of the Army.
(B)
The Delayed Entry Program of the Navy and the Marine Corps.
(C)
The program of the Air Force for the delayed entry of enlistees into the Air Force.
(D)
The program of the Coast Guard for the delayed entry of enlistees into the Coast Guard.
(E)
Any successor program to a program referred to in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
(2)
The term
Secretary concerned
has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.
549.
Use of assistance under Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program for non-traditional education to develop cybersecurity and computer coding skills
(a)
Briefing on use required
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the feasability and advisability of the enactment into law of the authority described in subsection (b).
(b)
Authority
The authority described in this subsection is authority for a member of the Armed Forces who is eligible for tuition assistance under the Department of Defense Tuition Assistance (TA) Program to use such assistance at or with an educational institution described in subsection (c) for courses or programs of education of such educational institution in connection with the following:
(1)
Cybersecurity skills or related skills.
(2)
Computer coding skills or related skills.
(c)
Educational institutions
(1)
In general
An educational institution described in this subsection is an educational institution not otherwise approved for participation in the Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program that receives approval from the Department of Defense for participation in the program for courses or programs of education described in subsection (b).
(2)
Approval
Any approval of the participation of an educational institution in the Program under this subsection would be granted by the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness in accordance with such guidance as the Under Secretary would issue for purposes of this section.
(3)
Memoranda of understanding
The Under Secretary would enter into a memorandum of understanding with each educational institution approved for participation in the Program pursuant to this subsection regarding the participation of such educational institution in the Program. Each memorandum of understanding would set forth such terms and conditions regarding the participation of the educational institution concerned in the Program, including terms and conditions applicable to the courses or programs for which tuition assistance under the Program could be used, as the Under Secretary would consider appropriate for purposes of this section.
(d)
Courses and programs
The courses and programs of education for which tuition assistance could be used pursuant to the authority in subsection (b) would include the following:
(1)
Massive online open courses (MOOCs).
(2)
Short-term certification courses, including so-called computer coding
boot camps
.
(3)
Such other non-traditional courses and programs of education leading to skills specified in subsection (b) as the Under Secretary would consider appropriate for purposes of this section.
F
Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness Matters
I
Defense Dependents' Education Matters
551.
Impact aid for
children with severe disabilities
(a)
In general
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 pursuant to section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by
Public Law 106–398
; 114 Stat. 1654A–77;
20 U.S.C. 7703a
).
(b)
Use of certain amount
Of the amount available under subsection (a) for payments as described in that subsection, $5,000,000 shall be available for such payments to local educational agencies determined by the Secretary of Defense, in the discretion of the Secretary, to have higher concentrations of military children with severe disabilities.
552.
Continuation
of authority to assist local educational agencies that benefit dependents of
members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian
employees
(a)
Assistance to
schools with significant numbers of military dependent
students
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 by section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, $25,000,000 shall be available only for the purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (
Public Law 109–163
;
20 U.S.C. 7703b
).
(b)
Local
educational agency defined
In this section, the term
local educational agency
has the meaning given that term in section 7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7713(9)
).
553.
One-year extension of authorities relating to the transition and support of military dependent
students to local educational agencies
Section 574(c)(3) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
20 U.S.C. 7703b
note) is amended by striking
September 30, 2017
and inserting
September 30, 2018
.
II
Military Family Readiness Matters
556.
Housing treatment for certain members of the Armed Forces, and their spouses and other dependents,
undergoing a permanent change of station within the United States
(a)
Housing treatment
(1)
In general
Chapter 7
of title 37, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 403
the following new section:
403a.
Housing treatment for certain members of the armed forces, and their spouses and other dependents,
undergoing a permanent change of station within the United States
(a)
Housing treatment for certain members who have a spouse or other dependents
(1)
Housing treatment regulations
The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations that permit a member of the armed forces described in paragraph (2) who is undergoing a permanent change of station within the United States to request the housing treatment described in subsection (b) during the covered relocation period of the member.
(2)
Eligible members
A member described in this paragraph is any member who—
(A)
has a spouse who is gainfully employed or enrolled in a degree, certificate or license granting program at the beginning of the covered relocation period;
(B)
has one or more dependents attending an elementary or secondary school at the beginning of the covered relocation period;
(C)
has one or more dependents enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program; or
(D)
is caring for an immediate family member with a chronic or long-term illness at the beginning of the covered relocation period.
(b)
Housing treatment
(1)
Continuation of housing for the spouse and other dependents
If a spouse or other dependent of a member whose request under subsection (a) is approved resides in Government-owned or Government-leased housing at the beginning of the covered relocation period, the spouse or other dependent may continue to reside in such housing during a period determined in accordance with the regulations prescribed pursuant to this section.
(2)
Early housing eligibility
If a spouse or other dependent of a member whose request under subsection (a) is approved is eligible to reside in Government-owned or Government-leased housing following the member’s permanent change of station within the United States, the spouse or other dependent may commence residing in such housing at any time during the covered relocation period.
(3)
Temporary use of government-owned or government-leased housing intended for members without a
spouse or dependent
If a spouse or other dependent of a member relocates at a time different from the member in accordance with a request approved under subsection (a), the member may be assigned to Government-owned or Government-leased housing intended for the permanent housing of members without a spouse or dependent until the member’s detachment date or the spouse or other dependent’s arrival date, but only if such Government-owned or Government-leased housing is available without displacing a member without a spouse or dependent at such housing.
(4)
Equitable basic allowance for housing
If a spouse or other dependent of a member relocates at a time different from the member in accordance with a request approved under subsection (a), the amount of basic allowance for housing payable may be based on whichever of the following areas the Secretary concerned determines to be the most equitable:
(A)
The area of the duty station to which the member is reassigned.
(B)
The area in which the spouse or other dependent resides, but only if the spouse or other dependent resides in that area when the member departs for the duty station to which the member is reassigned, and only for the period during which the spouse or other dependent resides in that area.
(C)
The area of the former duty station of the member, but only if that area is different from the area in which the spouse or other dependent resides.
(c)
Rule of construction related to certain basic allowance for housing payments
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the payment or the amount of basic allowance for housing payable under section 403(d)(3)(A) of this title to a member whose request under subsection (a) is approved.
(d)
Inapplicability to Coast Guard
This section does not apply to members of the Coast Guard.
(e)
Housing treatment education
The regulations prescribed pursuant to this section shall ensure the relocation assistance programs under section 1056 of title 10 include, as part of the assistance normally provided under such section, education about the housing treatment available under this section.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered relocation period
(A)
Subject to subparagraph (B), the term
covered relocation period
, when used with respect to a permanent change of station of a member of the armed forces, means the period that—
(i)
begins 180 days before the date of the permanent change of station; and
(ii)
ends 180 days after the date of the permanent change of station.
(B)
The regulations prescribed pursuant to this section may provide for a shortening or lengthening of the covered relocation period of a member for purposes of this section.
(2)
Dependent
The term
dependent
has the meaning given that term in section 401 of this title.
(3)
Permanent change of station
The term
permanent change of station
means a permanent change of station described in section 452(b)(2) of this title.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 7 such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 403 the following new item:
403a. Housing treatment for certain members of the armed forces, and their spouses and other
dependents, undergoing a permanent change of station within the United
States.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2018.
557.
Direct hire authority for Department of Defense for childcare services providers for Department child development centers
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may, without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of
chapter 33
of title 5, United States Code, recruit and appoint qualified childcare services providers to positions within the Department of Defense child development centers.
(b)
Regulations
The Secretary shall carry out this section in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary for purposes of this section.
(c)
Deadline for implementation
The Secretary shall prescribe the regulations required by subsection (b), and commence implementation of subsection (a), by not later than May 1, 2018.
(d)
Childcare services provider defined
In this section, the term
childcare services provider
means a person who provides childcare services for dependent children of members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense in child development centers on Department installations.
558.
Report on expanding and contracting for childcare services of the Department of Defense
Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth an assessment, undertaken by the Secretary for purposes of the report, of the feasibility and advisability of the following:
(1)
Expanding the operating hours of childcare facilities of the Department of Defense in order to meet childcare services requirements for swing-shift, night-shift, and weekend workers.
(2)
Using contracts with private-sector childcare services providers to expand the availability of childcare services for members of the Armed Forces at locations outside military installations at costs similar to the current costs for childcare services through child development centers on military installations.
(3)
Contracting with private-sector childcare services providers to operate childcare facilities of the Department on military installations.
(4)
Expanding childcare services as described in paragraphs (1) through (3) to members of the National Guard and Reserves in a manner that does not substantially raise costs of childcare services for the military departments or conflict with others who have a higher priority for space in childcare services programs, such as members of the Armed Forces on active duty.
559.
Report on review of General Schedule pay grades of childcare services providers of the Department
of Defense
(a)
Report required
Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on a review, undertaken by the Secretary for purposes of the report, of the General Schedule pay grades for childcare services provider positions within the Department of Defense.
(b)
Elements of review
The review undertaken for purposes of subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A comparison of the compensation provided for current General Schedule pay grades for childcare services provider positions within the Department with the compensation provided to childcare services providers in the private sector providing similar childcare services.
(2)
An assessment of the mix of General Schedule pay grades currently required by the Department to most effectively recruit and retain childcare services providers for military dependents.
(3)
A comparison of the budget implications of the current General Schedule pay grade mix with the General Schedule pay grade mix determined pursuant to paragraph (2) to be required by the Department to most effectively recruit and retain childcare services providers for military dependents.
560.
Pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework facilities
on military installations outside the United States
(a)
In general
Commencing not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasability and advisability of providing telework facilities for military spouses on military installations outside the United States. The Secretary shall consult with the host nation or nations concerned in carrying out the pilot program.
(b)
Number of installations
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program at not less than two military installations outside the United States selected by the Secretary for purposes of the pilot program.
(c)
Duration
The duration of the pilot program shall be a period selected by the Secretary, but not more than three years.
(d)
Elements
The pilot program shall include the following elements:
(1)
The pilot program shall be conducted as one or more public-private partnerships between the Department of Defense and a private corporation or partnership of private corporations.
(2)
The corporation or corporations participating in the pilot program shall contribute to the carrying out of the pilot program an amount equal to the amount committed by the Secretary to the pilot program at the time of its commencement.
(3)
The Secretary shall enter into one or more memoranda of understanding with the corporation or corporations participating in the pilot program for purposes of the pilot program, including the amounts to be contributed by such corporation or corporations pursuant to paragraph (2).
(4)
The telework undertaken by military spouses under the pilot program may only be for United States companies.
(5)
The pilot program shall permit military spouses to provide administrative, informational technology, professional, and other necessary support to companies through telework from Department installations outside the United States.
(e)
Funding
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 by section 401 and available for military personnel as specified in the funding table in section 4401, up to $1,000,000 may be available to carry out the pilot program, including entry into memoranda of understanding pursuant to subsection (d)(3) and payment by the Secretary of the amount committed by the Secretary to the pilot program pursuant to subsection (d)(2).
561.
Report on mechanisms to facilitate the obtaining by military spouses of professional licenses or
credentials in other States
Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth an assessment of the feasability and advisability of the following:
(1)
The development and maintenance of a joint Federal-State clearing house to process the professional license and credential information of military spouses in order—
(A)
to facilitate the matching of such information with State professional licensure and credentialing requirements; and
(B)
to provide military spouses information on the actions required to obtain professional licenses or credentials in other States.
(2)
The establishment of a joint Federal-State taskforce dedicated to the elimination of unnecessary or duplicative professional licensure and credentialing requirements among the States.
(3)
The development and maintenance of an Internet website that serves as a one-stop resource on professional licenses and credentials for military spouses that sets forth license and credential requirements for common professions in the States and provides assistance and other resources for military spouses seeking to obtain professional licenses or credentials in other States.
562.
Additional military childcare matters
(a)
Hours of operation of childcare development centers of the Department of Defense
(1)
In general
The hours of operation of each childcare development center (CDC) of the Department of Defense shall, to the extent practicable, be set and maintained in manner that takes into account the demands and circumstances of members of the Armed Forces, including members of the reserve components, who use such center in facilitation of the performance of their military duties.
(2)
Matters To be taken into account
The demands and circumstances to be taken into account under paragraph (1) for purposes of setting and maintaining the hours of operation of a childcare development center shall include the following:
(A)
Mission requirements of units whose members use such center.
(B)
The unpredictability of work schedules, and fluctuations in day-to-day work hours, of such members.
(C)
The potential for frequent and prolonged absences of such members for training, operations, and deployments.
(D)
The location of such center on the military installation concerned, including the location in connection with duty locations of members and applicable military family housing.
(E)
The geographic separation of such members from their extended family.
(F)
The impact on the ability of such members to perform their military duties of employment of their spouses or educational pursuits of their spouses.
(G)
Such other matters as the Secretary of the military department concerned considers appropriate for purposes of this subsection.
(b)
Childcare coordinators for military installations
(1)
Childcare coordinators
Each Secretary of a military department shall provide for a childcare coordinator at each military installation under the jurisdiction of such Secretary at which are stationed significant numbers of members of the Armed Forces with accompanying dependent children, as determined by such Secretary.
(2)
Nature of position
The childcare coordinator for a military installation may be an individual appointed to that position on full-time or part-time basis or an individual appointed to another position whose duties in such other position are consistent with the discharge by the person of the duties of childcare coordinator.
(3)
Duties
Each childcare coordinator for an installation shall carry out the duties as follows:
(A)
Act as an advocate for military families at the installation on childcare matters both on-installation and off-installation.
(B)
Work with the commander of the installation in order to seek to ensure that the childcare development centers at the installation, together with any other available childcare options on or in the vicinity of the installation—
(i)
provide a quality of care (including a caregiver-to-child ratio) commensurate with best practices of private providers of childcare services; and
(ii)
are responsive to the childcare needs of members stationed at the installation and their families.
(C)
Work with private providers of childcare services in the vicinity of the installation in order to—
(i)
track vacancies in the childcare facilities of such providers;
(ii)
seek to increase the availability of affordable childcare services for such members; and
(iii)
otherwise ease the use of such services by such members.
(D)
Such other duties as the Secretary of the military department concerned shall specify.
G
Decorations and Awards
571.
Authority of Secretary of the Army to award the Personnel Protection Equipment award of the Army to
former members of the Army
Notwithstanding any requirement in section 1125 of title 10, United States Code, relating to the award of awards only to current members of the Armed Forces, the Secretary of the Army may award the Personnel Protection Equipment (PPE) award of the Army to former members of the Army.
572.
Authorization for award of Distinguished Service Cross to Specialist Frank M. Crary for acts
of valor in Vietnam
(a)
Authorization
Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President may award the Distinguished Service Cross under section 3742 of such title to Specialist Frank M. Crary for the acts of valor in Vietnam described in subsection (b).
(b)
Acts of valor described
The acts of valor referred to in subsection (a) are the actions of Frank M. Crary on April 7, 1966, as a member of the Army serving in the grade of Specialist in Vietnam while serving with Company D, 1st Battalion (Airborne), 12th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division.
H
Other Matters
581.
Modification of submittal date of Comptroller General of the United States report on integrity of
the Department of Defense whistleblower program
Section 536(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2124) is amended by striking
18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act
and inserting
December 31, 2018
.
582.
Report to Congress on accompanied and unaccompanied tours of duty in remote locations with high
family support costs
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth a comparative analysis, undertaken by the Secretary for purposes of the report, of accompanied tours of duty and unaccompanied tours of duty of members of the Armed Forces in remote locations with high family support costs (including facility construction and operation costs), including the following:
(1)
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
(2)
Kwajalein Atoll.
(3)
Al Udeid Air Base, Qatar.
VI
Compensation and Other Personnel Benefits
A
Pay and Allowances
601.
Fiscal year 2018 increase in military basic pay
(a)
Waiver of section 1009 adjustment
The adjustment to become effective during fiscal year 2018 required by section 1009 of title 37, United States Code, in the rates of monthly basic pay authorized members of the uniformed services shall not be made.
(b)
Increase in
Basic Pay
Effective on January 1, 2018, the rates of monthly basic pay for members of the uniformed services are increased by 2.1 percent.
602.
Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates of basic allowance for housing under
certain circumstances
Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
.
603.
Adjustment to basic allowance for housing at with dependents rate of certain members of the uniformed services
(a)
In general
Section 403 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(p)
Ineligibility for with dependents rate of certain members
A member who is married to another member, is assigned to the same geographic location as such other member, and has one or more dependent children with such other member is not eligible for a basic allowance for housing at the with dependents rate.
.
(b)
Effective date
(1)
In general
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 2017, and shall, except as provided in paragraph (2), apply with respect to allowances for basic housing payable for months beginning on or after that date.
(2)
Preservation of current BAH for members with uninterrupted eligibility for BAH
Notwithstanding the amendment made by subsection (a), the monthly amount of basic allowance for housing payable to a member of the uniformed services under section 403 of title 37, United States Code, as of September 30, 2017, shall not be reduced by reason of the amendment so long as the member retains uninterrupted eligibility for such basic allowance for housing within an area of the United States or within an overseas location (as applicable).
604.
Modification of authority of President to determine alternative pay adjustment in annual basic pay
of members of the uniformed services
(a)
Modification
Section 1009(e) of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
or serious economic conditions affecting the general welfare
;
(2)
by striking paragraph (2); and
(3)
by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and—
(1)
if the date of the enactment of this Act occurs before September 1 of a year, shall apply with respect to plans for alternative pay adjustments for any year beginning after such year; and
(2)
if the date of the enactment of this Act occurs after August 31 of a year, shall apply with respect to plans for alternative pay adjustments for any year beginning after the year following such year.
B
Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays
611.
One-year
extension of certain bonus and special pay authorities for reserve
forces
The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
:
(1)
Section 308b(g), relating to Selected Reserve reenlistment bonus.
(2)
Section 308c(i), relating to Selected Reserve affiliation or enlistment bonus.
(3)
Section 308d(c), relating to special pay for enlisted members assigned to certain high-priority units.
(4)
Section 308g(f)(2), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment bonus for persons without prior service.
(5)
Section 308h(e), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
(6)
Section 308i(f), relating to Selected Reserve enlistment and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
(7)
Section 478a(e), relating to reimbursement of travel expenses for inactive-duty training outside of normal commuting distance.
(8)
Section 910(g), relating to income replacement payments for reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent mobilization for active duty service.
612.
One-year
extension of certain bonus and special pay authorities for health care
professionals
(a)
Title 10
authorities
The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
:
(1)
Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer candidate accession program.
(2)
Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education loans for certain health professionals who serve in the Selected Reserve.
(b)
Title 37
authorities
The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
:
(1)
Section 302c-1(f), relating to accession and retention bonuses for psychologists.
(2)
Section 302d(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for registered nurses.
(3)
Section 302e(a)(1), relating to incentive special pay for nurse anesthetists.
(4)
Section 302g(e), relating to special pay for Selected Reserve health professionals in critically short wartime specialties.
(5)
Section 302h(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for dental officers.
(6)
Section 302j(a), relating to accession bonus for pharmacy officers.
(7)
Section 302k(f), relating to accession bonus for medical officers in critically short wartime specialties.
(8)
Section 302l(g), relating to accession bonus for dental specialist officers in critically short wartime specialties.
613.
One-year
extension of special pay and bonus authorities for nuclear
officers
The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
:
(1)
Section 312(f), relating to special pay for nuclear-qualified officers extending period of active service.
(2)
Section 312b(c), relating to nuclear career accession bonus.
(3)
Section 312c(d), relating to nuclear career annual incentive bonus.
614.
One-year
extension of authorities relating to title 37 consolidated special pay,
incentive pay, and bonus authorities
The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
:
(1)
Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for enlisted members.
(2)
Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for officers.
(3)
Section 333(i), relating to special bonus and incentive pay authorities for nuclear officers.
(4)
Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities for officers.
(5)
Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive pay authorities for officers in health professions.
(6)
Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
(7)
Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
(8)
Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special duty pay.
(9)
Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or proficiency bonus.
(10)
Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to high priority units.
615.
One-year
extension of authorities relating to payment of other title 37 bonuses and
special pays
The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
:
(1)
Section 301b(a), relating to aviation officer retention bonus.
(2)
Section 307a(g), relating to assignment incentive pay.
(3)
Section 308(g), relating to reenlistment bonus for active members.
(4)
Section 309(e), relating to enlistment bonus.
(5)
Section 316a(g), relating to incentive pay for members of precommissioning programs pursuing foreign language proficiency.
(6)
Section 324(g), relating to accession bonus for new officers in critical skills.
(7)
Section 326(g), relating to incentive bonus for conversion to military occupational specialty to ease personnel shortage.
(8)
Section 327(h), relating to incentive bonus for transfer between Armed Forces.
(9)
Section 330(f), relating to accession bonus for officer candidates.
616.
Aviation bonus matters
Section 334(c) of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraphs:
(2)
Business case for payment of aviation bonus amounts
(A)
In general
The amount of the aviation bonus payable under paragraph (1)(B) under agreements entered into under subsection (d) during a fiscal year shall be determined solely through a business case analysis of the amount required to be paid under such agreements in order to address anticipated manning shortfalls for such fiscal year by aircraft type category.
(B)
Budget justification documents
The budget justification documents in support of the budget of the President for a fiscal year (as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31) shall set forth for each uniformed service the following:
(i)
The amount requested for the payment of aviation bonuses under this section using amounts authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal year concerned by aircraft type category.
(ii)
The business case analysis supporting the amount so requested by aircraft type category.
(iii)
For each aircraft type category, whether or not the amount requested will permit the payment during the fiscal year concerned of the maximum amount of the aviation bonus authorized by paragraph (1).
(iv)
If any amount requested is to address manning shortfalls, a description of any plans of the Secretary concerned to address such shortfalls by non-monetary means.
(3)
Tiered limitation on maximum amount of aviation bonus
(A)
In general
The maximum amount of the aviation bonus payable under paragraph (1)(B) under agreements entered into under subsection (d) during a fiscal year shall vary by anticipated manning shortfalls for such fiscal year by aircraft type category. The variance shall be stated by tier correlating maximum bonus amounts with anticipated manning and retention levels, as follows:
(i)
Maximum amount payable (known as
Tier I
) is the amount specified for the fiscal year concerned by paragraph (1)(B) and is payable under agreements for duty by aircraft type category in which—
(I)
the projected manning level for the fiscal year does not exceed 90 percent of the required manning level; or
(II)
the two-year retention trend for personnel performing such duty does not exceed 50 percent.
(ii)
Maximum amount payable (known as
Tier II
) is an amount equal to 68 percent of the amount specified for the fiscal year concerned by paragraph (1)(B) and is payable under agreements for duty by aircraft type category in which—
(I)
the projected manning level for the fiscal year is between 90 and 95 percent of the required manning level; or
(II)
the two-year retention trend for personnel performing such duty is between 50 and 55 percent.
(iii)
Maximum amount payable (known as
Tier III
) is an amount equal to 34 percent of the amount specified for the fiscal year concerned by paragraph (1)(B) and is payable under agreements for duty by aircraft type category in which—
(I)
the projected manning level for the fiscal year is between 95 and 100 percent of the required manning level; or
(II)
the two-year retention trend for personnel performing such duty is between 55 and 65 percent.
(iv)
Maximum amount payable (known as
Tier IV
) is zero for duty by aircraft type category in which—
(I)
the projected manning level for the fiscal year is 100 percent or more of the required manning level; or
(II)
the two-year retention trend for personnel performing such duty exceeds 65 percent.
(B)
Limitation on total number of agreements providing for Tier I payment
In no event may all the agreements entered into under subsection (d) during a fiscal year by a Secretary concerned provide for a maximum amount payable as described in subparagraph (A)(i).
.
617.
Special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities for enlisted members who pilot remotely
piloted aircraft
(a)
In general
Chapter 5
of title 37, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 334
the following new section:
334a.
Special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities: enlisted members who pilot remotely piloted
aircraft
(a)
Aviation incentive pay
(1)
Incentive pay authorized
The Secretary concerned may pay aviation incentive pay under this section to an enlisted member in a regular or reserve component of a uniformed service who—
(A)
is entitled to basic pay under section 204 of this title or compensation under 206 of this title;
(B)
is designated as a remotely piloted aircraft pilot, or is in training leading to such a designation;
(C)
engages in, or is in training leading to, frequent and regular performance of operational flying duty or proficiency flying duty;
(D)
engages in or remains in aviation service for a specified period; and
(E)
meets such other criteria as the Secretary concerned determines appropriate.
(2)
Enlisted members not currently engaged in flying duty
The Secretary concerned may pay aviation incentive pay under this section to an enlisted member who is otherwise qualified for such pay but who is not currently engaged in the performance of operational flying duty or proficiency flying duty if the Secretary determines, under regulations prescribed under section 374 of this title, that payment of aviation pay to that enlisted member is in the best interests of the service.
(b)
Aviation bonus
The Secretary concerned may pay an aviation bonus under this section to an enlisted member in a regular or reserve component of a uniformed service who—
(1)
is entitled to aviation incentive pay under subsection (a);
(2)
is within one year of completing the member’s enlistment;
(3)
reenlists or voluntarily extends the member’s enlistment for a period of at least one year or, in the case of an enlisted member serving pursuant to an indefinite reenlistment, executes a written agreement to remain on active duty for a period of at least one year or to remain in an active status in a reserve component for a period of at least one year; and
(4)
meets such other criteria as the Secretary concerned determines appropriate.
(c)
Maximum amount and method of payment
(1)
Maximum amount
The Secretary concerned shall determine the amount of a bonus or incentive pay to be paid under this section, except that—
(A)
aviation incentive pay under subsection (a) shall be paid at a monthly rate not to exceed $1,000 per month; and
(B)
an aviation bonus under subsection (b) may not exceed $35,000 for each 12-month period of obligated service agreed to under subsection (d).
(2)
Business case for payment of aviation bonus amounts
(A)
In general
The amount of the aviation bonus payable under paragraph (1)(B) under agreements entered into under subsection (d) during a fiscal year shall be determined solely through a business case analysis of the amount required to be paid under such agreements in order to address anticipated manning shortfalls for such fiscal year by aircraft type category.
(B)
Budget justification documents
The budget justification documents in support of the budget of the President for a fiscal year (as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31) shall set forth for each uniformed service the following:
(i)
The amount requested for the payment of aviation bonuses under this section using amounts authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal year concerned by aircraft type category.
(ii)
The business case analysis supporting the amount so requested by aircraft type category.
(iii)
For each aircraft type category, whether or not the amount requested will permit the payment during the fiscal year concerned of the maximum amount of the aviation bonus authorized by paragraph (1).
(iv)
If any amount requested is to address manning shortfalls, a description of any plans of the Secretary concerned to address such shortfalls by non-monetary means.
(3)
Lump sum or installments
A bonus under this section may be paid in a lump sum or in periodic installments, as determined by the Secretary concerned.
(4)
Fixing bonus amount
Upon acceptance by the Secretary concerned of the written agreement required by subsection (d), the total amount of the bonus to be paid under the agreement shall be fixed.
(d)
Written agreement for bonus
To receive an aviation bonus under this section, an enlisted member determined to be eligible for the bonus shall enter into a written agreement with the Secretary concerned that specifies—
(1)
the amount of the bonus;
(2)
the method of payment of the bonus under subsection (c)(2);
(3)
the period of obligated service; and
(4)
the type or conditions of the service.
(e)
Reserve component enlisted members performing inactive duty training
An enlisted member of reserve component who is entitled to compensation under section 206 of this title and who is authorized aviation incentive pay under this section may be paid an amount of incentive pay that is proportionate to the compensation received under section 206 of this title for inactive-duty training.
(f)
Relationship to other pay and allowances
(1)
Aviation incentive pay
Aviation incentive pay paid to an enlisted member under subsection (a) shall be in addition to any other pay and allowance to which the enlisted member is entitled, except that an enlisted member may not receive a payment under such subsection and section 351(a)(2) or 353(a) of this title for the same skill and period of service.
(2)
Aviation bonus
An aviation bonus paid to an enlisted member under subsection (b) shall be in addition to any other pay and allowance to which the enlisted member is entitled, except that an enlisted member may not receive a bonus payment under such subsection and section 331 or 353(b) of this title for the same skill and period of service.
(g)
Repayment
An enlisted member who receives aviation incentive pay or an aviation bonus under this section and who fails to fulfill the eligibility requirements for the receipt of the incentive pay or bonus or complete the period of service for which the incentive pay or bonus is paid, as specified in the written agreement under subsection (d) in the case of a bonus, shall be subject to the repayment provisions of section 373 of this title.
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Aviation service
The term
aviation service
means participation in aerial flight performed, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, by an eligible enlisted member remotely piloted aircraft pilot.
(2)
Operational flying duty
The term
operational flying duty
means flying performed under competent orders by enlisted members of the regular or reserve components while serving in assignments in which basic flying skills are normally maintained in the performance of assigned duties as determined by the Secretary concerned, and flying duty performed by members in training that leads to designation as a remotely piloted aircraft pilot by the Secretary concerned.
(3)
Proficiency flying duty
The term
proficiency flying duty
means flying performed under competent orders by enlisted members of the regular or reserve components while serving in assignments in which such skills would normally not be maintained in the performance of assigned duties.
(i)
Termination of Authority
No agreement may be entered into under this section after December 31, 2018.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 5 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 334 the following new item:
334a. Special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities: enlisted members who pilot remotely
piloted aircraft.
.
618.
Technical and conforming amendments relating to 2008 consolidation of special pay authorities
(a)
Repayment provisions
(1)
Title 10
The following provisions of title 10, United States Code, are each amended by inserting
or 373
before
of title 37
:
(A)
Section 510(i).
(B)
Subsections (a)(3) and (c) of section 2005.
(C)
Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2007(e).
(D)
Section 2105.
(E)
Section 2123(e)(1)(C).
(F)
Section 2128(c).
(G)
Section 2130a(d).
(H)
Section 2171(g).
(I)
Section 2173(g)(2).
(J)
Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2200a(e).
(K)
Section 4348(f).
(L)
Section 6959(f).
(M)
Section 9348(f).
(N)
Subsections (a)(2) and (b) of section 16135.
(O)
Section 16203(a)(1)(B).
(P)
Section 16301(h).
(Q)
Section 16303(d).
(R)
Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 16401(f).
(2)
Title 14
Section 182(g) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by inserting
or 373
before
of title 37
.
(b)
Officers appointed pursuant to an agreement under section 329 of title 37
Section 641 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (6).
(c)
Reenlistment leave
The matter preceding paragraph (1) of section 703(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
or paragraph (1) or (3) of section 351(a)
after
section 310(a)(2)
.
(d)
Rest and recuperation absence for qualified members extending duty at designated location overseas
The matter following paragraph (4) of section 705(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
or 352
after
section 314
.
(e)
Rest and recuperation absence for certain members undergoing extended deployment to combat zone
Section 705a(b)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
or 352(a)
after
section 305
.
(f)
Additional incentives for health professionals of the Indian Health Service
Section 116(a) of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (
25 U.S.C. 1616i(a)
) is amended by inserting
or 335(b)
after
section 302(b)
.
(g)
Military pay and allowances continuance while in a missing status
Section 552(a)(2) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by inserting
or section 351(a)(2)
after
section 301
.
(h)
Military pay and allowances
Section 907(d) of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by inserting
or 351
after
section 301
;
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting
or 352
after
section 301c
;
(C)
in subparagraph (C), by inserting
or 353(a)
after
section 304
;
(D)
in subparagraph (D), by inserting
or 352
after
section 305
;
(E)
in subparagraph (E), by inserting
or 352
after
section 305a
;
(F)
in subparagraph (F), by inserting
or 352
after
section 305b
;
(G)
in subparagraph (G), by inserting
or 352
after
section 307a
;
(H)
in subparagraph (I), by inserting
or 352
after
section 314
;
(I)
in subparagraph (J), by striking
316
and inserting
353(b)
; and
(J)
in subparagraph (K), by striking
323
and inserting
section 355
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by inserting
or 352
after
section 307
;
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
308
and inserting
331
;
(C)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
309
and inserting
331
; and
(D)
in subparagraph (D), by inserting
or 353
after
section 320
.
(i)
Pay and allowances of officers of the Public Health Service
Section 208(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 210(a)(2)
) is amended by inserting
or 373
after
303a(b)
.
C
Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits
I
Amendments in Connection with Retired Pay Reform
631.
Adjustments to Survivor Benefit Plan for members electing lump sum payments of retired pay under the modernized retirement system for members of the uniformed services
(a)
Definition of base amount
Section 1447(6)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in the matter preceding clause (i) by inserting
or 1415(b)(1)(B)
after
section 1409(b)(2)
.
(b)
Coordination with reductions in retired pay
Section 1452 of such title is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(1), by inserting
, other than retired pay received as a lump sum under section 1415(b)(1)(A) of this title,
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) after
, the retired pay
;
(2)
in subsection (b)(1), by inserting
, other than retired pay received as a lump sum under section 1415(b)(1)(A) of this title,
after
The retired pay
; and
(3)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
, other than retired pay received as a lump sum under section 1415(b)(1)(A) of this title,
after
The retired pay
; and
(B)
in paragraph (4), by inserting
or 1415(b)(1)(B)
after
section 1409(b)(2)
.
632.
Technical correction regarding election to participate in modernized retirement system for
reserve component members experiencing a break in service
(a)
Persons experiencing a break in service
Section 12739(f)(2)(B)(iii) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
on the date of the reentry
and inserting
within 30 days after the date of the reentry
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on January 1, 2018, immediately after the coming into effect of the amendment made by section 631(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 843), to which the amendment made by subsection (a) relates.
II
Other Matters
636.
Authority for the Secretaries of the military departments to provide for care of remains of those
who die on active duty and are interred in a foreign cemetery
Section 1482(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(10)
In the case of a decedent under the jurisdiction of a Secretary of a military department at the time of death, enduring care of remains interred in a foreign cemetery if the burial location was designated by such Secretary.
.
637.
Technical corrections to use of member's current pay grade and years of service in a division of
property involving disposable retired pay
(a)
In general
Section 1408 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(4)—
(A)
in the matter preceding clause (i) of subparagraph (A), by striking
(as determined pursuant to subparagraph (B)
; and
(B)
by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following new subparagraph (B):
(B)
For purposes of subparagraph (A), in the case of a division of property as part of a final decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or legal separation that becomes final prior to the date of a member's retirement, the total monthly retired pay to which the member is entitled shall be—
(i)
in the case of a member not described in clause (ii), the amount of retired pay to which the member would have been entitled using the member's retired pay base and years of service on the date of the decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or legal separation, as computed under section 1406 or 1407 of this title, whichever is applicable, increased by the sum of the cost-of-living adjustments that—
(I)
would have occurred under section 1401a(b) of this title between the date of the decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or legal separation and the time of the member's retirement using the adjustment provisions under section 1401a of this title applicable to the member upon retirement; and
(II)
occur under 1401a of this title after the member's retirement; or
(ii)
in the case of a member who becomes entitled to retired pay pursuant to chapter 1223 of this title, the amount of retired pay to which the member would have been entitled using the member's retired pay base and creditable service points on the date of the decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or legal separation, as computer under chapter 1223 of this title, increased by the sum of the cost-of-living adjustments as described in clause (i) that apply with respect to the member.
; and
(2)
in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(8)
A division of property award computed as a percentage of a member's disposable retired pay shall be increased by the same percentage as any cost-of-living adjustment made under section 1401a after the member's retirement.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on December 23, 2016, as if enacted immediately following the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) to which such amendments relate.
(c)
Applicability
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to any division of property as part of a final decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or legal separation involving a member of the Armed Forces to which section 1408 of title 10, United States Code, applies that becomes final after December 23, 2016.
638.
Permanent extension and cost-of-living adjustments of special survivor indemnity allowances under
the
Survivor Benefit
Plan
Section 1450(m) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (H), by striking
and
at the end; and
(B)
by striking subparagraph (I) and inserting the following new subparagraphs:
(I)
for months from October 2016 through December 2018, $310; and
(J)
for months during any calendar year after 2018, the amount determined in accordance with paragraph (6).
; and
(2)
by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following new paragraph (6):
(6)
Cost-of-living adjustments after 2018
(A)
In general
The amount of the allowance payable under paragraph (1) for months during any calendar year beginning after 2018 shall be—
(i)
the amount payable pursuant to paragraph (2) for months during the preceding calendar year, plus
(ii)
an amount equal to the percentage of the amount determined pursuant to clause (i) which percentage is equal to the percentage increase in retired pay of members and former members of the armed forces for such calendar year under section 1401a of this title.
(B)
Public notice on amount of allowance payable
The Secretary of Defense shall publish in the Federal Register each year the amount of the allowance payable under paragraph (1) for months in such year by reason of the operation of this paragraph.
.
D
Other Matters
651.
Construction of domestic source requirement for footwear furnished to enlisted members of the Armed
Forces on initial entry into the Armed Forces
Section 418(d) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(4)
This subsection does not apply to the furnishing of athletic footwear to the members of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, or the Marine Corps upon their initial entry into the armed forces, or prohibit the provision of a cash allowance to such members for such purpose, if the Secretary of Defense determines that compliance with paragraph (2) would result in a sole source contract for procurement of athletic footwear for the purpose stated in paragraph (1) because there would be only a sole certified of supply for such footwear.
(5)
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all procurements of athletic footwear to which this subsection applies are made using firm fixed price contracts.
.
652.
Inclusion of Department of Agriculture in Transition Assistance Program
(a)
In general
Subsection (a) of section 1144 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
each place it appears in paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Secretary of Agriculture
.
(b)
Inclusion in elements of program
Subsection (b) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(12)
Provide information regarding the availability to such members of the following through the Department of Agriculture:
(A)
Grants, loans, and other assistance to enter production agriculture or engage in rural entrepreneurship.
(B)
Identification of and assistance in obtaining employment within the agricultural sector that aligns with military occupational specialties or military certifications, including employment with the Department.
(C)
Training and apprenticeships for employment in rural communities and in the agricultural and food sectors.
.
653.
Review and update of regulations governing debt collectors interactions with unit commanders
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall review and update Department of Defense Instruction 1344.09 and any associated regulations to ensure that such regulations comply with Federal consumer protection laws with respect to the collection of debt.
VII
Health Care Provisions
A
TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits
701.
TRICARE Advantage demonstration program
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, establish a demonstration program to enable applicable eligible individuals to enroll in Medicare Advantage plans.
(2)
Duration
The demonstration program established under paragraph (1) shall be carried out for a period of not less than five years.
(b)
Plans
(1)
Selection
The Secretary shall competitively select one or more Medicare Advantage plans for which the Secretary of Health and Human Services has waived or modified requirements under section 1857(i) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w-27(i)
) in market areas of the TRICARE program with large concentrations of beneficiaries eligible for TRICARE for Life (as determined by the Secretary) to participate in the demonstration program through the use of risk-bearing, capitated contracts with Medicare Advantage organizations.
(2)
Requirements
Each Medicare Advantage plan selected under paragraph (1) shall meet the following requirements:
(A)
The plan is an MA-PD plan (as defined in section 1860D-1(a)(3)(C) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w-101(a)(3)(C)
)).
(B)
The plan has a minimum quality star rating of four or higher under section 1853(o)(4) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w-23(o)(4)
).
(C)
The plan and the Medicare Advantage organization offering the plan meet such other criteria as the Secretary determines appropriate for purposes of this section.
(3)
Use of Department facilities and services
(A)
Military treatment facilities
The Secretary may include military treatment facilities as authorized providers for applicable eligible individuals enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan participating in the demonstration program as a service provided by the Department of Defense.
(B)
Pharmacy benefits program
The Secretary may include coverage of pharmaceutical agents under the pharmacy benefits program under section 1074g of title 10, United States Code, as a coverage option for applicable eligible individuals enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan participating in the demonstration program as a service provided by the Department of Defense.
(c)
Enrollment of applicable eligible individuals
Unless an applicable eligible individual opts out, all applicable eligible individuals located in an area participating in the demonstration program shall be enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan selected under subsection (b)(1).
(d)
Costs of program
The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall jointly determine the appropriate distribution of costs and potential savings to the Department of Defense and the Department of Health and Human Services that result from the demonstration program.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Report on implementation of program
(A)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the implementation by the Secretary of the demonstration program under this section.
(B)
Elements
The report required by subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
(i)
A description of each Medicare Advantage plan participating in the demonstration program, disaggregated by market area of the TRICARE program (as determined by the Secretary).
(ii)
A description of covered benefits, premium rates, and copayments or cost sharing, if any, for each Medicare Advantage plan participating in the demonstration program in each such area.
(iii)
The number of applicable eligible individuals eligible to enroll and the number of applicable eligible individuals projected to enroll in each Medicare Advantage plan participating in the demonstration program in each such area.
(iv)
An assessment of projected average annual out-of-pocket costs, if any, for applicable eligible individuals enrolled in each Medicare Advantage plan participating in the demonstration program.
(v)
A description of outcome metrics developed to measure quality of care, improved health outcomes, better access to care, and enhanced beneficiary experience under the demonstration program.
(2)
Final report
Not later than four years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report providing a comprehensive assessment of the demonstration program under this section.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Applicable eligible individual
The term
applicable eligible individual
means an eligible individual (as defined in paragraph (2)) who is a Medicare Advantage eligible individual (as defined in section 1851(a)(3) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w-21(a)(3)
)).
(2)
Eligible individual
The term
eligible individual
means an individual eligible for health benefits under section 1086(d) of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Medicare Advantage organization
The term
Medicare Advantage organization
has the meaning given that term in section 1859 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w-28
).
(4)
Medicare Advantage plan
The term
Medicare Advantage plan
means a health plan under part C of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w-21
et seq.).
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Defense.
(6)
TRICARE program; TRICARE for life
The terms
TRICARE program
and
TRICARE for Life
have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
(g)
Regulations
(1)
In general
In order to implement expeditiously the demonstration program under this section, the Secretary may prescribe such changes to the regulations implementing the TRICARE program as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2)
Rulemaking
The Secretary shall implement any changes prescribed under paragraph (1)—
(A)
by prescribing an interim final rule; and
(B)
not later than 180 days after prescribing such interim final rule and considering public comments with respect to such interim final rule, by prescribing a final rule.
(h)
Waiver authority
The Secretary of Health and Human Services may waive such requirements of titles XI and XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1301
et seq.; 1395 et seq.) as may be necessary for purposes of carrying out this section.
702.
Continued access to medical care at facilities of the uniformed services for certain members of the
reserve
components
(a)
TRICARE Reserve Select
Paragraph (2) of section 1076d(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(2)
The term
TRICARE Reserve Select
means—
(A)
medical care at facilities of the uniformed services to which a dependent described in section 1076(a)(2) of this title is entitled; and
(B)
health benefits under the TRICARE Select self-managed, preferred provider network option under section 1075 of this title made available to beneficiaries by reason of this section and subject to the cost-sharing requirements set forth in such section 1075.
.
(b)
TRICARE Retired Reserve
Section 1076e is amended—
(1)
In subsection (b), in the subsection heading, by striking
Retired Reserve
;
(2)
In subsection (c), by striking
Retired Reserve
the last place it appears; and
(3)
in subsection (f), by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
(2)
The term
TRICARE Retired Reserve
means—
(A)
medical care at facilities of the uniformed services to which a dependent described in section 1076(a)(2) of this title is entitled; and
(B)
health benefits under the TRICARE Select self-managed, preferred provider network option under section 1075 of this title made available to beneficiaries by reason of this section and subject to the cost-sharing requirements set forth in such section 1075.
.
703.
Modification of eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select and TRICARE Retired Reserve of certain
members of the reserve components
(a)
TRICARE Reserve Select
Section 1076d(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a member
and inserting
A member
; and
(2)
by striking paragraph (2).
(b)
TRICARE Retired Reserve
Section 1076e(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a member
and inserting
A member
; and
(2)
by striking paragraph (2).
704.
Expedited evaluation and treatment for prenatal surgery under the TRICARE program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall implement processes and procedures to ensure that a covered beneficiary under the TRICARE program whose pregnancy is complicated with a fetal condition or suspected of being complicated with a fetal condition receives, in an expedited manner and at the discretion of the covered beneficiary, evaluation, non-directive counseling, and treatment from a perinatal or pediatric specialist capable of providing surgical management and intervention in utero.
(b)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
covered beneficiary
and
TRICARE program
have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
705.
Specification that individuals under the age of 21 are eligible for hospice care services under the TRICARE program
Section 1079(a)(15) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, except that hospice care may be provided to individuals under the age of 21
.
706.
Modifications of cost-sharing requirements for the TRICARE Pharmacy Benefits Program and treatment
of certain pharmaceutical agents
(a)
In general
Paragraph (6) of section 1074g(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(6)
(A)
In the case of any of the years 2018 through 2026, the cost-sharing amounts under this subsection for eligible covered beneficiaries shall be determined in accordance with the following table:
For:
The cost-sharing amount for a 30-day supply of a retail generic is:
The cost-sharing amount for a 30-day supply of a retail formulary is:
The cost-sharing amount for a 90-day supply of a mail order generic is:
The cost-sharing amount for a 90-day supply of a mail order formulary is:
The cost-sharing amount for a 90-day supply of a mail order non-formulary is:
2018
$10
$28
$10
$28
$54
2019
$10
$30
$10
$30
$58
2020
$10
$32
$10
$32
$62
2021
$11
$34
$11
$34
$66
2022
$11
$36
$11
$36
$70
2023
$11
$38
$11
$38
$75
2024
$12
$40
$12
$40
$80
2025
$13
$42
$13
$42
$85
2026
$14
$45
$14
$45
$90
(B)
For any year after 2026, the cost-sharing amounts under this subsection for eligible covered beneficiaries shall be equal to the cost-sharing amounts for the previous year adjusted by an amount, if any, determined by the Secretary to reflect changes in the costs of pharmaceutical agents and prescription dispensing, rounded to the nearest dollar.
(C)
Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the cost-sharing amounts under this subsection for a dependent of a member of the uniformed services who dies while on active duty, a member retired under chapter 61 of this title, or a dependent of a member retired under such chapter shall be equal to the cost-sharing amounts, if any, for 2017.
.
(b)
Treatment of certain pharmaceutical agents
(1)
Pharmacy benefits program
Such section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(10)
Notwithstanding paragraphs (2), (5), and (6), in order to encourage the use by covered beneficiaries of pharmaceutical agents that provide the greatest value to covered beneficiaries and the Department of Defense (as determined by the Secretary, including considerations of better care, healthier people, and smarter spending), the Secretary may, upon the recommendation of the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee established under subsection (b) and review by the Uniform Formulary Beneficiary Advisory Panel established under subsection (c)—
(A)
exclude from the pharmacy benefits program any pharmaceutical agent that the Secretary determines provides very little or no value to covered beneficiaries and the Department under the program; and
(B)
give preferential status to any non-generic pharmaceutical agent on the uniform formulary by treating it, for purposes of cost-sharing under paragraph (6), as a generic product under the TRICARE retail pharmacy program and mail order pharmacy program.
.
(2)
Medical contracts
Section 1079 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(q)
In the case of any pharmaceutical agent (as defined in section 1074g(g) of this title) provided under a contract entered into under this section by a physician, in an outpatient department of a hospital, or otherwise as part of any medical services provided under such a contract, the Secretary of Defense may, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, adopt special reimbursement methods, amounts, and procedures to encourage the use of high-value products and discourage the use of low-value products, as determined by the Secretary.
.
(3)
Regulations
In order to implement expeditiously the reforms authorized by the amendments made by paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary of Defense may prescribe such changes to the regulations implementing the TRICARE program (as defined in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code) as the Secretary considers appropriate—
(A)
by prescribing an interim final rule; and
(B)
not later than one year after prescribing such interim final rule and considering public comments with respect to such interim final rule, by prescribing a final rule.
707.
Consolidation of cost-sharing requirements under TRICARE Select and TRICARE Prime
(a)
TRICARE Select
(1)
In general
Section 1075 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
in subsection (c), by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
(1)
With respect to beneficiaries in the active-duty family member category or the retired category other than beneficiaries described in paragraph (2)(B), the cost-sharing requirements shall be calculated pursuant to subsection (d)(1).
(2)
(A)
With respect to beneficiaries described in subparagraph (B) in the active-duty family member category or the retired category, the cost-sharing requirements shall be calculated as if the beneficiary were enrolled in TRICARE Extra or TRICARE Standard as if TRICARE Extra or TRICARE Standard, as the case may be, were still being carried out by the Secretary.
(B)
Beneficiaries described in this subparagraph are the following beneficiaries:
(i)
Retired members and the family members of such retired members covered by section 1086(c)(1) of this title by reason of being retired under chapter 61 of this title or being a dependent of such a retired member.
(ii)
Survivors covered by section 1086(c)(2) of this title.
;
(B)
by striking subsection (e); and
(C)
by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) as subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively.
(2)
Conforming amendment
Subsection (d)(2) of such section is amended by striking
, and the amounts specified under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (e),
.
(b)
TRICARE Prime
Section 1075a(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph:
(2)
With respect to beneficiaries in the active-duty family member category or the retired category (as described in section 1075(b)(1) of this title) other than beneficiaries described in paragraph (3)(B), the cost-sharing requirements shall be calculated pursuant to subsection (b)(1).
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following new subparagraph:
(B)
Beneficiaries described in this subparagraph are the following beneficiaries:
(i)
Retired members and the family members of such retired members covered by section 1086(c)(1) of this title by reason of being retired under chapter 61 of this title or being a dependent of such a retired member.
(ii)
Survivors covered by section 1086(c)(2) of this title.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on January 1, 2018.
708.
TRICARE technical amendments
(a)
Definition of TRICARE Standard
Paragraph (15) of section 1072 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(15)
The term
TRICARE Standard
means the TRICARE program made available prior to January 1, 2018, covering health benefits contracted for under the authority of section 1079(a) or 1086(a) of this title and subject to the same rates and conditions as apply to persons covered under those sections.
.
(b)
Cost-sharing amounts
(1)
TRICARE Select
(A)
Allowance of cost-sharing amounts as determined by the Secretary
Subsection (d) of section 1075 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
The cost-sharing requirements applicable to services not specifically addressed in the table set forth in paragraph (1) shall be established by the Secretary.
.
(B)
Modification of reference to ambulance civilian network
Paragraph (1) of such subsection is amended, in the first column of the table, by striking
Ambulance civilian network
and inserting
Ground ambulance civilian network
.
(2)
TRICARE Prime
(A)
Allowance of cost-sharing amounts as determined by the Secretary
Subsection (b) of section 1075a of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
The cost-sharing requirements applicable to services not specifically addressed in the table set forth in paragraph (1) shall be established by the Secretary.
.
(B)
Modification of reference to ambulance civilian network
Paragraph (1) of such section is amended, in the first column of the table, by striking
Ambulance civilian network
and inserting
Ground ambulance civilian network
.
(c)
Medical care for dependents
(1)
Reference to medically necessary vitamins
Paragraphs (3) and (18) of section 1077(a) of such title are amended by striking
subsection (g)
each place it appears and inserting
subsection (h)
.
(2)
Eligibility of dependents to purchase hearing aids
Section 1077(g) of such title is amended by striking
of former members of the uniformed services
and inserting
eligible for care under this section
.
(d)
Modification of reference to fiscal year
(1)
Contracts for medical care for spouses and children
Section 1079(b) such title is amended by striking
fiscal year
each place it appears and inserting
calendar year
.
(2)
Contracts for health benefits for certain members, former members, and their dependents
Section 1086(b) of such title is amended by striking
fiscal year
each place it appears and inserting
calendar year
.
(e)
Referrals and preauthorizations for TRICARE Prime
(1)
Preauthorization for care at residential treatment centers
Section 1095f(b) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Inpatient care at a residential treatment center.
.
(2)
Reference
Section 1075a(c) of such title is amended by striking
section 1075f(a)
and inserting
section 1095f(a)
.
(f)
Applicability of premium for dependent coverage
Section 1110b(c)(1) of such title is amended by striking
section 1075 of this section
and inserting
section 1075 or 1075a of this title, as appropriate
.
709.
Contraception coverage parity under the TRICARE program
(a)
In general
Section 1074d of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in the subsection heading, by inserting
for members and former members
after
Services available
; and
(B)
in paragraph (1), by striking
subsection (b)
and inserting
subsection (d)
;
(2)
by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (d); and
(3)
by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsections:
(b)
Care related to prevention of pregnancy
Female covered beneficiaries shall be entitled to care related to the prevention of pregnancy described in subsection (d)(3).
(c)
Prohibition on cost-Sharing for certain services
Notwithstanding section 1074g(a)(6), section 1075, or section 1075a of this title or any other provision of law, cost-sharing may not be imposed or collected for care related to the prevention of pregnancy provided pursuant to subsection (a) or (b), including for any method of contraception provided, whether provided through a facility of the uniformed services, the TRICARE retail pharmacy program, or the national mail-order pharmacy program.
.
(b)
Care related to prevention of pregnancy
Subsection (d)(3) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (a)(2), is further amended by inserting before the period at the end the following:
(including all methods of contraception approved by the Food and Drug Administration, contraceptive care (including with respect to insertion, removal, and follow up), sterilization procedures, and patient education and counseling in connection therewith)
.
(c)
Conforming amendment
Section 1077(a)(13) of such title is amended by striking
section 1074d(b)
and inserting
section 1074d(d)
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2018.
B
Health Care Administration
721.
Modification of priority for evaluation and treatment of individuals at military treatment
facilities
Subsection (b) of section 717 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended to read as follows:
(b)
Priority of covered beneficiaries
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the evaluation and treatment of covered beneficiaries at military treatment facilities shall be prioritized ahead of the evaluation and treatment of veterans and civilians at such facilities under subsection (a).
(2)
Waiver
The Secretary may waive the requirement under paragraph (1) in order to provide timely evaluation and treatment for individuals who are—
(A)
severely wounded or injured by acts of terror that occur in the United States; or
(B)
residents of the United States who are severely wounded or injured by acts of terror outside the United States.
.
722.
Selection of directors of military treatment facilities and tours of duty of
such directors
(a)
In general
Not later than January 1, 2019, the Secretary of Defense shall do the following:
(1)
Develop the common qualifications and core competencies required of military and civilian individuals for selection as directors of military treatment facilities.
(2)
Establish a minimum length for the tour of duty of a member of the Armed Forces serving as a director of a military treatment facility.
(b)
Qualifications and competencies
(1)
Standards
In developing common qualifications and core competencies under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall include standards with respect to the following:
(A)
Professional competence.
(B)
Moral and ethical integrity and character.
(C)
Formal education in healthcare executive leadership and healthcare management.
(D)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2)
Objective
The objective of the Secretary in developing such qualifications and competencies shall be to ensure that the individuals selected as directors of military treatment facilities are highly qualified to serve as health system executives in a medical treatment facility of the Armed Forces.
(c)
Tours of duty
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), in the case of a director of a military treatment facility who is a member of the Armed Forces, the length of the tour of duty of any such director assigned to such position after January 1, 2019, may not be shorter than the longer of—
(A)
the length established pursuant to subsection (a)(2); or
(B)
three years.
(2)
Waiver
The Secretary may authorize a tour of duty of a member of the Armed Forces serving as a director of a military treatment facility of a shorter length than is otherwise provided for in paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines, in the discretion of the Secretary, that there is good cause for a tour of duty in such position of shorter length. Any such determination shall be made on a case-by-case basis.
723.
Clarification of administration of military medical
treatment facilities
Section 1073c(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)(E), by striking
miliary
and inserting
military
;
(2)
in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
commander of each military medical treatment facility
and inserting
military or civilian director of each military medical treatment facility, under the authority, direction, and control of the Director of the Defense Health Agency,
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
If the Secretary of Defense determines it appropriate, a military director (or any other senior military officer or officers) of a military medical treatment facility may be a commanding officer for purposes of chapter 47 of this title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) with respect to military personnel assigned to the military medical treatment facility.
.
724.
Modification of execution of TRICARE contracting responsibilities
Subsection (b) of section 705 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended to read as follows:
(b)
Execution of contracting responsibility
With respect to any acquisition of managed care support services under the TRICARE program initiated after the date of the enactment of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018
, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall serve as the authority for decisions relating to such acquisition and shall be responsible for approving the acquisition strategy and conducting pre-solicitation, pre-award, and post-award acquisition reviews.
.
725.
Pilot program on establishment of integrated health care delivery systems
(a)
In general
Beginning not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall carry out a pilot program to establish integrated health care delivery systems among the military health system, other Federal health systems, and private sector integrated health systems.
(b)
Duration of pilot program
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the pilot program for a period of not less than five years.
(c)
Implementation of pilot program
(1)
Establishment of task force
The Secretary shall establish a multi-disciplinary task force of Federal and private sector health care experts (in this section referred to as the
Task Force
) to develop a plan to implement the pilot program.
(2)
Membership of task force
(A)
In general
The Task Force shall be composed of senior health care representatives from—
(i)
the Department of Defense;
(ii)
the Department of Veterans Affairs;
(iii)
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services;
(iv)
high-performance, integrated health systems in the private sector; and
(v)
health information technology organizations in the private sector.
(B)
Additional members
The Secretary may appoint additional members of the Task Force from the private sector as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(3)
Submittal of plan
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Task Force shall submit to the Secretary an implementation plan for the pilot program.
(4)
Nonapplicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act
The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Task Force.
(d)
Elements
The pilot program shall be developed and carried out as follows:
(1)
To create high-value integrated health systems that—
(A)
establish value-based models of reimbursement for health care providers in integrated health care delivery systems to promote medical innovation and create better health value for patients;
(B)
provide innovative health benefit design solutions to promote effective, efficient, and affordable health care; and
(C)
tailor case management and care coordination for high-need, high-cost patients.
(2)
To empower health care providers with real-time advanced information technology solutions—
(A)
to coordinate and manage health care services across the continuum of care; and
(B)
to leverage sophisticated data capture, cloud computing, and data analytical tools to provide predictive modeling capabilities for health care providers.
(3)
To empower patients with transparent information on health care costs, quality outcomes, and safety within health care provider networks in high-value integrated health systems.
(4)
To provide incentives to patients and health care providers to prevent overuse of low-value health care services.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Report on implementation
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives the implementation plan submitted to the Secretary under subsection (c)(3).
(2)
Final Report
(A)
In general
Not later than four years after the date that the pilot program begins, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report assessing the pilot program.
(B)
Elements
The report submitted under subparagraph (A) shall provide the following:
(i)
An analysis of the impact of the pilot program on building sustainable integrated health care delivery systems among the military health system, other Federal health systems, and private sector integrated health systems.
(ii)
A determination of the extent to which value-based health care reimbursement models create value for patients and the health systems participating in the pilot program.
(iii)
A determination of the extent to which the use of real-time advanced information technology solutions—
(I)
improves coordination and management of health care services across the continuum of care; and
(II)
leverages sophisticated data capture, cloud computing, and data analytical tools to provide comprehensive predictive modeling capabilities for health care providers.
(iv)
A determination of the extent to which transparency of health care costs, health care quality outcomes, and patient safety within health care provider networks encourages patients to seek care from health care providers who provide high-quality health outcomes at lower cost.
(v)
A determination of the extent to which patient and provider incentives prevent overuse of low-value health services.
(vi)
A determination of the extent to which the pilot program should be expanded and implemented on a permanent basis.
C
Reports and Other Matters
731.
Extension of authority for Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical
Facility Demonstration Fund
Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2573), as amended by section 722 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
), section 723 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
), and section 741(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is further amended by striking
September 30, 2018
and inserting
September 30, 2019
.
732.
Additional emergency uses for medical products to reduce deaths and severity of injuries caused by
agents of war
Section 1107a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Additional authority to reduce deaths and severity of injuries caused by agents of war
(1)
In a case in which an emergency use of an unapproved product or an emergency unapproved use of an approved product cannot be authorized under section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360bbb–3
) because the emergency does not involve an actual or threatened attack with a biological, chemical, radiological, or nuclear agent or agents, the Secretary of Defense may authorize an emergency use outside the United States of the product to reduce the number of deaths or the severity of harm to members of the armed forces (or individuals associated with deployed members of the armed forces) caused by a risk or agent of war.
(2)
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, an authorization by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall have the same effect with respect to the armed forces as an emergency use authorization under section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360bbb–3
).
(3)
The Secretary may issue an authorization under paragraph (1) with respect to the emergency use of an unapproved product or the emergency unapproved use of an approved product only if—
(A)
the committee established under paragraph (5) has recommended that the Secretary issue the authorization; and
(B)
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs makes a written determination, after consultation with the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, that, based on the totality of scientific evidence available to the Assistant Secretary, criteria comparable to those specified in section 564(c) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360bbb–3(c)
) have been met.
(4)
With respect to the emergency use of an unapproved product or the emergency unapproved use of an approved product under this subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall establish such scope, conditions, and terms under this subsection as the Secretary considers appropriate, including scope, conditions, and terms comparable to those specified in section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360bbb–3
).
(5)
(A)
There is established in the Department of Defense a Department of Defense Emergency Use Authorization Committee (in this paragraph referred to as the
Committee
) to advise the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on proposed authorizations under this subsection.
(B)
Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Secretary of Defense and shall consist of prominent health care professionals who are not employees of the Department of Defense (other than for purposes of serving as a member of the Committee).
(C)
The Committee may be established as a subcommittee of another Federal advisory committee.
(6)
In this subsection:
(A)
The term
biological product
has the meaning given that term in section 351(i) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 262(i)
).
(B)
The terms
device
and
drug
have the meanings given those terms in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 321
).
(C)
The term
product
means a drug, device, or biological product.
(D)
The terms
unapproved product
and
unapproved use of an approved product
have the meanings given those terms in section 564(a)(4) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360bbb–3(a)(4)
).
.
733.
Prohibition on conduct of certain medical research and development projects
The Secretary of Defense and each Secretary of a military department may not fund or conduct a medical research and development project unless the Secretary funding or conducting the project—
(1)
submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a written certification that the project is designed to directly protect, enhance, or restore the health and safety of members of the Armed Forces; and
(2)
does not initiate the funding or conduct of such project until the date that is 90 days after the submittal of such written certification.
734.
Modification of determination of average wait times at urgent care clinics and pharmacies at
military medical
treatment facilities under pilot program
(a)
Urgent care clinics
Subsection (c)(2) of section 744 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended to read as follows:
(2)
Determination
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall determine the average wait time to display under such paragraph by using a formula derived from best practices in the health care industry.
.
(b)
Pharmacies
Subsection (d)(2) of such section is amended to read as follows:
(2)
Determination
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall determine the average wait time to display under such paragraph by using a formula derived from best practices in the health care industry.
.
735.
Report on plan to improve pediatric care and related services for children of members of the Armed
Forces
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth a plan of the Department of Defense to improve pediatric care and related services for children of members of the Armed Forces.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
In order to ensure that children receive developmentally-appropriate and age-appropriate health care services from the Department, a plan to align preventive pediatric care under the TRICARE program with—
(A)
standards for such care as required by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
Public Law 111–148
);
(B)
guidelines established for such care by the Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment program under the Medicaid program carried out under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.); and
(C)
recommendations by organizations that specialize in pediatrics.
(2)
A plan to develop a uniform definition of
pediatric medical necessity
for the Department that aligns with recommendations of organizations that specialize in pediatrics in order to ensure that a consistent definition of such term is used in providing health care in military treatment facilities and by health care providers under the TRICARE program.
(3)
A plan to revise certification requirements for residential treatment centers of the Department to expand the access of children of members of the Armed Forces to services at such centers.
(4)
A plan to develop measures to evaluate and improve access to pediatric care, coordination of pediatric care, and health outcomes for such children.
(5)
A plan to include an assessment of access to pediatric specialty care in the annual report to Congress on the effectiveness of the TRICARE program.
(6)
A plan to improve the quality of and access to behavioral health care under the TRICARE program for children of members of the Armed Forces, including intensive outpatient and partial hospitalization services.
(7)
A plan to mitigate the impact of permanent changes of station and other service-related relocations of members of the Armed Forces on the continuity of health care services received by such children who have special medical or behavioral health needs.
(8)
A plan to mitigate deficiencies in data collection, data utilization, and data analysis to improve pediatric care and related services for children of members of the Armed Forces.
(c)
TRICARE program defined
In this section, the term
TRICARE program
has the meaning given such term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
736.
Inclusion of gambling disorder in health assessments and related research efforts of the Department of Defense
(a)
Annual Periodic Health Assessment
The Secretary of Defense shall incorporate medical screening questions specific to gambling disorder into the Annual Periodic Health Assessment (DD Form 3024) conducted by the Department of Defense for members of the Armed Forces.
(b)
Research efforts
The Secretary shall incorporate into ongoing research efforts of the Department questions on gambling disorder, as appropriate, including by restoring such questions into the Health Related Behaviors Survey of Active Duty Military Personnel.
VIII
Acquisition policy, acquisition management, and related matters
A
Acquisition policy and management
801.
Repeal of temporary suspension of public-private competitions for conversion of Department of
Defense functions to performance by contractors
Effective as of the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, section 325 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2253) is repealed.
802.
Technical and conforming amendments related to program management provisions
(a)
Repeal of duplicative provision related to program and project management
Subsection (c) of section 503 of title 31, United States Code, as added by section 861(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2298), is repealed.
(b)
Repeal of duplicative provision related to program management officers and program management
policy council
Section 1126 of title 31, United States Code, as added by section 861(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2299), is repealed.
(c)
Repeal of obsolete provisions
Section 861 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2299) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking paragraphs (2) and (3);
(2)
in subsection (b), by striking paragraph (2); and
(3)
by striking subsections (c) and (d).
803.
Should-cost management
(a)
Requirement for regulations
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall amend the Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to provide for the appropriate use of the should-cost review process in a manner that is transparent, objective, and provides for the efficiency of the systems acquisition process in the Department of the Defense.
(b)
Required elements
The regulations required under subsection (a) shall incorporate, at a minimum, the following elements:
(1)
A description of the features distinguishing a should-cost review and the analysis of program direct and indirect costs.
(2)
Establishment of a process for communicating with the contractor the elements of a proposed should-cost review.
(3)
A method for ensuring that identified should-cost savings opportunities are based on accurate, complete, and current information and are associated with specific engineering or business changes that can be quantified and tracked.
(4)
A description of the training, skills, and experience, including cross functional experience, that Department of Defense and contractor officials carrying out a should-cost review in subsection (a) should possess.
(5)
A method for ensuring appropriate collaboration with the contractor throughout the review process.
(6)
Establishment of review process requirements that provide for sufficient analysis and minimize any impact on program schedule.
(7)
A requirement that any separate audit or review carried out in connection with the should-cost review be provided to the prime contractor under the program.
804.
Clarification of purpose of Defense acquisition
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall amend the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation as appropriate to provide the following:
(1)
The Defense Acquisition System exists to manage the nation's investments in technologies, programs, and product support necessary to achieve the National Security Strategy and support the United States Armed Forces.
(2)
The investment strategy of the Department of Defense shall be postured to support not only today's force, but also the next force, and future forces beyond that.
(3)
The primary objective of Defense acquisition is to acquire quality products that satisfy user needs with measurable improvements to mission capability and operational support, in a timely manner, and at a fair and reasonable price.
805.
Defense policy advisory committee on technology
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall form a committee of senior executives from United States firms in the national technology and industrial base to meet with the Secretary, the Secretaries of the military departments, and members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to exchange information, including, as appropriate, classified information, on technology threats to the national security of the United States and on the emerging technologies from the national technology and industrial base that may become available to counter such threats in a timely manner.
(b)
Meetings
The defense policy advisory committee on technology formed pursuant to subsection (a) shall meet with the Secretary and the other Department of Defense officials specified in such subsection collectively at least once annually in each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022. The Secretary of Defense shall provide the congressional defense committees annual briefings on the meetings.
(c)
Federal Advisory Committee Act
The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the defense policy advisory committee on technology established pursuant to this section.
806.
Report on extension of development, acquisition, and sustainment authorities of the military
departments to the United States Special Operations Command
(a)
Review
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a review of the authorities available to the Secretaries of the military departments and the acquisition executives of the military departments for the development, acquisition, and sustainment of technology, equipment, and services for the military departments in order to determine the feasibility and advisability of the provision of such authorities to the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command and the acquisition executive of the Command for the development, acquisition, and sustainment of special operations-peculiar technology, equipment, and services.
(b)
Report
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the review required by subsection (a). The report shall include the following:
(1)
A description of the review.
(2)
An identification of the authorities the Secretary recommends for provision to the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command and the acquisition executive of the Command as described in subsection (a), and recommendations for any modifications of such authorities that the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the United States Special Operations Command.
(3)
Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate for the provision of authorities identified pursuant to paragraph (2) as described in subsection (a).
(4)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the review.
B
Amendments to general contracting authorities, procedures, and limitations
811.
Waiver authority for purposes of expanding competition
Section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(m)
In the event the application of any provision of law results in only one responsible bidder for a contract, the Secretary of Defense may waive such provision of law (other than subsection (c)) for purposes of expanding competition for the contract.
.
812.
Increased simplified acquisition threshold applicable to Department of Defense procurements
(a)
Increased simplified acquisition threshold
(1)
In general
Chapter 137
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2339a.
Simplified acquisition threshold
Notwithstanding section 134 of title 41, the simplified acquisition threshold for the Department of Defense for purposes of such section is $250,000.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
2339a. Simplified acquisition threshold.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 134 of title 41, United States Code, is amended by striking
In division B
and inserting
Except as provided in section 2339a of title 10, in division B
.
813.
Increased threshold for cost or pricing data and truth in negotiations requirements
Section 2306a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
$500,000
each place it appears and inserting
$1,000,000
.
814.
Contract authority for advanced development of initial or additional prototype units
(a)
Permanent authority
(1)
In general
Chapter 137
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2302d
the following new section:
2302e.
Contract authority for advanced development of initial or additional prototype units
(a)
Authority
A contract initially awarded from the competitive selection of a proposal resulting from a general solicitation referred to in section 2302(2)(B) of this title may contain a contract line item or contract option for—
(1)
the provision of advanced component development, prototype, or initial production of technology developed under the contract; or
(2)
the delivery of initial or additional items if the item or a prototype thereof is created as the result of work performed under the contract.
(b)
Limitations
(1)
Minimal amount
A contract line item or contract option described in subsection (a)(2) shall require the delivery of the minimal amount of initial or additional items to allow for the timely competitive solicitation and award of a follow-on development or production contract for those items.
(2)
Term
A contract line item or contract option described in subsection (a) shall be for a term of not more than 2 years.
(3)
Dollar value of work
The dollar value of the work to be performed pursuant to a contract line item or contract option described in subsection (a) may not exceed the amount of expenditure consistent with a major system, as defined in section 2302d of this title.
(4)
Applicability
The authority provided in subsection (a) applies only to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of the Air Force.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2302d the following new item:
2302e. Contract authority for advanced development of initial or additional prototype units.
.
(b)
Modification of competitive procedures definition
Section 2302(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
basic research proposals
and inserting
proposals for basic research, applied research, advanced research, or development projects
.
(c)
Repeal of obsolete authority
Section 819 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 107–314
;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is hereby repealed.
815.
Treatment of independent research and development costs on certain contracts
(a)
Threshold for establishing advisory panel related to goal for reimbursable bid and proposal costs
Section 2372a(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 824(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is amended by striking
If the Department of Defense exceeds the goal established under subsection (c) for a fiscal year, within 180 days after exceeding the goal
and inserting
If the amount of reimbursable bid and proposal costs paid by the Department of Defense for a fiscal year exceeds .75 percent of the total aggregate industry sales to the Department for such fiscal year, within 180 days of exceeding such threshold
.
(b)
Independent research and development costs: allowable costs
Section 2372(d) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 824(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is further amended by striking
subsection (c)(3)(A)
and inserting
subsection (c)(2)(A)
.
816.
Non-traditional contractor definition
Section 2302(9) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
means an entity that is not currently performing
and inserting
means a specific business unit or function with a unique entity identifier that is not currently performing
.
817.
Repeal of domestic source restriction related to wearable electronics
Section 2533a(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
(excluding wearable electronics)
after
Hand or measuring tools
.
818.
Use of outcome-based and performance-based requirements for services contracts
(a)
Justification requirement for use of personnel and labor hour requirements
The Department of Defense may not enter into a contract for the procurement of services valued in excess of $10,000,000 based on specific descriptive personnel and labor hour requirements unless the program manager and contracting officer first submit to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment a written justification including the reasons for basing the contract on those requirements instead of outcome- or performance-based requirements.
(b)
Comptroller General report
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on justifications submitted pursuant to subsection (a). The report shall review the adequacy of the justifications and identify any reoccurring obstacles to the use of outcome- and performance-based requirements instead of specified personnel and labor hour requirements for purposes of awarding services contracts.
(c)
Sunset
The requirements under this section shall terminate at the close of September 30, 2022.
819.
Pilot program for longer term multiyear service contracts
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may use the authority under subsection (a) of section 2306c of title 10, United States Code, to enter into up to five contracts for periods of not more than 10 years for services described in subsection (b) of such section. Each contract entered into pursuant to this subsection may be extended for up to five additional one-year terms.
(b)
Study
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into an agreement with an independent organization with relevant expertise to study best practices and lessons learned from using services contracts for periods longer than five years by commercial companies, foreign governments, and State governments, as well as service contracts for periods longer than five years used by the Federal Government, such as Energy Savings Performance Contracts.
(2)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the study conducted under paragraph (1).
(c)
Comptroller General report
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program carried out under this section.
820.
Identification of commercial services
Section 876 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2311) is amended—
(1)
by striking
Not later than
and inserting
(a)
In general
.—Not later than
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
Identification of industry subcategories
In preparing the guidance required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall identify those industry subcategories in facilities-related services, knowledge-based services (except engineering services), construction services, medical services, or transportation services in which there are significant numbers of commercial services providers able to meet the requirements of the Department of Defense.
.
821.
Government Accountability Office bid protest reforms
(a)
In general
Chapter 137
of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 812, is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2340.
Government Accountability Office bid protests
(a)
Payment of costs for denied protests
(1)
In general
A contractor who files a protest described under paragraph (2) with the Government Accountability Office on a contract with the Department of Defense shall pay to the Department of Defense costs incurred for processing a protest at the Government Accountability Office and the Department of Defense.
(2)
Covered protests
A protest described under this paragraph is a protest—
(A)
all of the elements of which are denied in an opinion issued by the Government Accountability Office; and
(B)
filed by a party with revenues in excess of $100,000,000 during the previous year.
(b)
Withholding of payments above incurred costs of incumbent contractors
(1)
In general
Contractors who file a protest on a contract on which they are the incumbent contractor shall have all payments above incurred costs withheld on any bridge contracts or temporary contract extensions awarded to the contractor as a result of a delay in award resulting from the filing of such protest.
(2)
Disposition of withheld payments above incurred costs
(A)
Release to incumbent contractor
All payments above incurred costs of a protesting incumbent contractor withheld pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be released to the protesting incumbent contractor if—
(i)
the solicitation that is the subject of the protest is cancelled and no subsequent request for proposal is released or planned for release; or
(ii)
if the Government Accountability Office issues an opinion that upholds any of the protest grounds filed under the protest.
(B)
Release to awardee
Except for the exceptions set forth in subparagraph (A), all payments above incurred costs of a protesting incumbent contractor withheld pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be released to the contractor that was awarded the protested contract prior to the protest.
(C)
Release to Department of Defense in event of no contract award
Except for the exceptions set forth in subparagraph (A), if a protested contract for which payments above incurred costs are withheld under paragraph (1) is not awarded to a contractor, the withheld payments shall be released to the Department of Defense and deposited into an account that can be used by the Department to offset costs associated with Government Accountability Office bid protests.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for such chapter, as amended by section 812(a)(2) of this Act, is further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2339a the following new item:
2340. Government Accountability Office bid protests.
.
822.
Enhanced post-award debriefing rights
(a)
Release of contract award information
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to require that all required post-award debriefings must provide detailed and comprehensive statements of the agency’s rating for each evaluation criteria and of the agency’s overall award decision. With regard to protecting the confidential and proprietary information of other offerors, the revision shall encourage the release to the company of all information that otherwise would be releaseable in the course of a bid protest challenge to an award. At a minimum, the revisions shall include—
(1)
a requirement for disclosure of the agency’s written source selection award determination, redacted if necessary to protect other offerors’ confidential and proprietary information;
(2)
a requirement for a combined written and oral debriefing for all contract awards and task or delivery orders valued at $10,000,000 or higher;
(3)
a requirement for an option, at an offerors’ election, for access to an unredacted copy of the source selection award determination and the supporting agency record for outside counsel or other appropriate outside representative for all contract awards and task or delivery orders valued at $10,000,000 or higher;
(4)
provisions ensuring that both losing and winning offerors are entitled to the applicable enhanced post-award debriefing rights; and
(5)
robust procedures, consistent with section 2305(b)(5)(C) of title 10, United States Code, and section 15.506(e) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, to protect the confidential and proprietary information of other offerors.
(b)
Opportunity for follow-up questions
Section 2305(b)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) as subparagraphs (D), (E), and (F), respectively;
(2)
in subparagraph (B)—
(A)
in clause (v), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(B)
in clause (vi), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(vii)
an opportunity for a disappointed offeror to submit within two business days of receiving a post-award debriefing additional, follow-up questions related to the debriefing.
; and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph:
(C)
The agency shall respond in writing to additional, follow-up questions submitted under subparagraph (B) within five business days. The debriefing will not be considered concluded until the agency delivers its written responses to the disappointed offeror.
.
(c)
Commencement of post-briefing period
Section 3553(d)(4) of title 31, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii) respectively;
(2)
by striking
The period
and inserting
(A) The period
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(B)
For procurements conducted by any component of the Department of Defense, the five-day post-debriefing period does not commence until the day the Government delivers to a disappointed offeror the written responses to any questions submitted pursuant to section 2305(5)(B)(vii) of title 10.
.
(d)
Decisions on protests
Section 3554(a)(1) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting the following:
for all protests arising from agencies outside the Department of Defense and within 65 days after the date the protest is submitted to the Comptroller General for all protests arising from the Department of Defense and its subordinate agencies. In protests arising from the Department of Defense and its subordinate agencies which present unusually complex issues or large agency records, the Comptroller General may extend the time for decision but in no event later than 100 days after the protest is submitted.
.
823.
Limitation on unilateral definitization
(a)
Limitation
Section 2326 of title 10, United States Code, is amended —
(1)
by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) as subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j) respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
(c)
Limitation on unilateral definitization by the contracting officer
The following limitation applies to all undefinitized contractual actions with a not to exceed value of $50,000,000 or greater:
(1)
If agreement is not reached on contractual terms, specifications, and price by a date certain, as required under subsection (b)(1), the contracting officer may not unilaterally definitize those terms, specifications and price over the objection of the contractor until—
(A)
the head of the agency approves the definitization in writing;
(B)
the contracting officer provides the written approval to the contractor; and
(C)
the head of the agency notifies the congressional defense committees of the approval.
(2)
The contract modification unilaterally definitizing the action shall not take effect until 60 calendar days after the congressional defense committees have been notified under subparagraph (C) of such paragraph.
.
(b)
Conforming regulations
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulations to conform with the amendments made by subsection (a).
824.
Restriction on use of reverse auctions and lowest price technically acceptable contracting methods
for safety equipment
(a)
In general
Section 814 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by inserting
and safety equipment
after
personal protective equipment
; and
(2)
by inserting
and safety equipment
after
personal protective equipment
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
The tables of sections in section 2(b) of such Act and at the beginning of title VIII of such Act are amended in the item relating to section 814 by inserting
and safety equipment
after
personal protective equipment
.
825.
Use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection process
(a)
Additional requirements
Subsection (b) of section 813 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (5), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(7)
the Department of Defense would not realize any additional innovation or future technological advantage by using a different methodology; and
(8)
the items procured are predominantly expendable in nature, non-technical, or a short life expectancy or short shelf life.
.
(b)
Reporting requirement
Subsection (d) of such section is amended by striking
contract exceeding $10,000,000
and inserting
contract exceeding $5,000,000
.
826.
Middle tier of acquisition for rapid prototype and rapid fielding
(a)
Elimination of cost-sharing requirement
Section 804(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking subparagraph (C); and
(2)
by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively.
(b)
Use of simplified procedures
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Defense Acquisition Regulation Supplement shall be amended to provide for special simplified procedures for purchases of property and services under the rapid prototyping and rapid fielding programs established under section 804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note).
827.
Elimination of cost underruns as factor in calculation of penalties for cost overruns
(a)
In general
Section 828 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2430
note) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
fiscal year 2015
and inserting
fiscal years 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022
;
(2)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
or underrun
;
(B)
in paragraph (2), by striking
or underruns
;
(C)
in paragraph (3)—
(i)
by striking
and cost underruns
; and
(ii)
by striking
or underruns
; and
(D)
in paragraph (4), by striking
, except that the cost overrun penalty may not be a negative amount
; and
(3)
in subsection (c), by striking
each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2015
and inserting
fiscal years 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022
.
(b)
Prior fiscal years
The requirements of section 828 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2430
note), as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall continue to apply with respect to fiscal years beginning on or before October 1, 2016.
828.
Contract closeout authority
Section 836(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2286) is amended by striking
entered into prior to fiscal year 2000
and inserting
entered into at least 17 years before the current fiscal year
.
829.
Service contracts of the Department of Defense
(a)
Inclusion of certain information in future-years defense program
Each future-years defense program submitted to Congress pursuant to section 221of title 10, United States Code, for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 shall include an estimate of the cost and number of service contracts of the Department of Defense for each fiscal year covered by the future-years defense program. The estimate shall be set forth for the Department of Defense as a whole and separately for each department, agency, organization, and element of the Department anticipated to use service contracts during the fiscal years covered by the future-years defense program concerned.
(b)
Requirement for certification and briefing
No study or competition regarding a public-private competition for the conversion to performance by a contractor for any function performed by Department of Defense civilian employees may be begun or announced pursuant to section 2461 of title 10, United States Code, or otherwise pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular A–76, until such time as—
(1)
the future-years defense program submitted to Congress includes the information described in subsection (a); or
(2)
the Secretary of Defense certifies that the Department has a plan to provide such information by the next fiscal year.
830.
Department of Defense contractor workplace safety and accountability
(a)
Identification of known workplace safety and health violations
(1)
In general
A contracting officer, prior to awarding or renewing a covered contract, shall, as part of the responsibility determination, consider any identified violations of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (
29 U.S.C. 651
et seq.) or equivalent State laws by the offeror, and by any covered subcontractors.
(2)
Responsibility determination
The contracting officer shall consider violations described in paragraph (1) in determining whether the offeror is a responsible source with a satisfactory record of performance that meets mission and ethical standards.
(3)
Referral of information to suspension and debarment officials
As appropriate, a contracting officer shall refer matters related to violations described in paragraph (1) to the Department of Defense's suspension and debarment official in accordance with Department procedures.
(b)
Contractor rights
The Secretary of Defense shall establish policies and practices—
(1)
ensuring that when making responsibility determinations, contracting officers request that contractors provide any and all information the contractors deem necessary to demonstrate responsibility prior to final determinations;
(2)
establishing mechanisms for contractors to have an expedited process to review any information used to support determinations of non-responsibility; and
(3)
establishing mechanisms for contractors to have an expedited process to appeal determinations of non-responsibility.
(c)
Protest rights
The Secretary of Defense shall protect the rights of contractors to protest bids and appeal actions taken pursuant to this section.
(d)
Training and guidance
The Secretary of Defense shall develop and provide clear training and guidance to acquisition officials, contracting officers, and current and potential contractors regarding implementation policies and practices for this section.
(e)
Comptroller General report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Department of Defense and the congressional defense committees a report on the health and safety records of Department of Defense contractors.
(2)
Elements
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
(A)
A description of the Department of Defense's existing procedures to evaluate the safety and health records of current and prospective contractors.
(B)
An evaluation of the Department's adherence to those procedures.
(C)
An assessment of the current incidence of health and safety violations by Department contractors.
(D)
An assessment of whether the Department of Labor has the resources to investigate and identify safety and health violations by Department of Defense contractors.
(E)
An assessment of whether the Department of Labor should consider assuming an expanded investigatory role or a targeted enforcement program for ensuring the safety and health of workers under Department of Defense contracts.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered contract
The term
covered contract
means a Department of Defense contract for the procurement of property or services, including construction, valued in excess of $1,000,000.
(2)
Covered subcontractor
The term
covered subcontractor
means a subcontractor listed in the bid for a covered contract or known by the Department of Defense to be a subcontractor of the offeror.
831.
Department of Defense promotion of contractor compliance with existing law
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Department of Defense should aim to ensure that parties contracting with the Federal Government abide by existing law, including worker protection laws;
(2)
worker protection laws, including
chapter 43
of title 38, United States Code (commonly known as the
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994
or
USERRA
) and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.), were enacted to ensure equitable workplace practices;
(3)
identifying and helping to improve the compliance of contractors with worker protection violations will help avoid setbacks and delays stemming from contracting with noncompliant contractors; and
(4)
the Secretary of Defense has the authority to ensure contractors’ compliance with existing laws and should establish a goal to work with responsible contractors who are in compliance with worker protection laws.
C
Provisions relating to major defense acquisition programs
835.
Revisions to definition of major defense acquisition program
Section 2430(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting
in the case of a program that is not a program for the acquisition of an automated information system (either a product or a service),
after
(B)
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
by striking
does not include an acquisition program
and inserting the following: “does not include—
(A)
an acquisition program
; and
(B)
by striking the period at the end and inserting the following: “; or
(B)
an acquisition program for a defense business system (as defined in section 2222(i)(1) of this title) carried out using the acquisition guidance issued pursuant to section 883(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2223a
note).
.
836.
Prohibition on use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection process for major
defense acquisition programs
(a)
Prohibition
(1)
In general
Chapter 144
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2441
the following new section:
2442.
Prohibition on use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection process
(a)
In general
The Department of Defense shall not use a lowest price technically acceptable source selection process for the development contract of a major defense acquisition program.
(b)
Notification
(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a notification of the source selection process that the Department of Defense plans to use for the development contract of a major defense acquisition program.
(2)
The notification required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted at the same time that the President submits under section 1105 of title 31 the budget in which budget authority is requested for the development contract of a major defense acquisition program. If the Department of Defense has not yet determined the source selection process for the development contract at the time that budget authority for the development contract is requested, the Department of Defense shall submit the notification not later than 30 days before release of the request for proposals for the development contract.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Lowest price technically acceptable source selection process
The term
lowest price technically acceptable source selection process
has the meaning given that term in part 15 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(2)
Major defense acquisition program
The term
major defense acquisition program
has the meaning given that term in section 2430 of this title.
(3)
Development contract
The term
development contract
means a prime contract for the development of a major defense acquisition program.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2441 the following new item:
“2442. Prohibition on use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection process.”.
(b)
Applicability
The requirements of section 2442 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply to major defense acquisition programs for which budgetary authority is requested for fiscal year 2019 or a subsequent fiscal year.
D
Provisions related to acquisition workforce
841.
Training in commercial items procurement
(a)
Training
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President of the Defense Acquisition University shall establish a comprehensive training program on part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. The training shall cover, at a minimum, the following topics:
(1)
The origin of part 12 and the congressional mandate to prefer commercial procurements.
(2)
The definition of a commercial item, with a particular focus on the
of a type
concept.
(3)
Price analysis and negotiations.
(4)
Market research and analysis.
(5)
Independent cost estimates.
(6)
Parametric estimating methods.
(7)
Value analysis.
(8)
Best practices in pricing from commercial sector organizations, foreign government organizations, and other Federal, state, and local public sectors organizations.
(9)
Other topics on commercial procurements necessary to ensure a well-educated acquisition workforce.
(b)
Enrollments goals
The President of the Defense Acquisition University shall set goals for student enrollment for the comprehensive training program established under subsection (a).
(c)
Supporting activities
The Secretary of Defense shall establish, in support of the achievement of the goals of this section—
(1)
a university research program to engage academic experts on research topics of interest to improve commercial item identification and pricing methodologies; and
(2)
a set of exchange and interface opportunities between government personnel experts to increase awareness of best practices and challenges in commercial item identification and pricing.
(d)
Funding
The Secretary of Defense shall use amounts available in the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund established under section 1705 of title 10, United States Code, to fund the comprehensive training program established under subsection (a).
842.
Modification of definition of acquisition workforce to include personnel engaged in the acquisition
or development of cybersecurity systems
Section 1705(h)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(i)
after
(A)
;
(2)
by striking
; and
and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(ii)
are engaged in the acquisition or development of systems relating to cybersecurity; and
.
843.
Training and support for programs pursuing agile acquisition methods
(a)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the President of the Defense Acquisition University, shall establish an in-resident targeted training course at the Defense Acquisition University on Agile Acquisition.
(b)
Course components
The course shall include the following elements:
(1)
Training designed to instill a common understanding of all functional roles and dependencies involved in developing and producing a capability using Agile processes.
(2)
An exercise involving teams composed of personnel from pertinent functions and functional organizations engaged in developing an integrated Agile Acquisition approach for a specific program.
(c)
Course attendance
The course shall be—
(1)
available for certified acquisition personnel from all program offices using Agile Acquisition methods; and
(2)
mandatory for personnel from other relevant organizations in each of the military services and Defense Agencies, including organizations responsible for engineering, budgeting, contracting, test and evaluation, requirements validation, and certification and accreditation, that support those program offices.
(d)
Agile Acquisition coach
(1)
In general
The Secretary and the senior acquisition executives in each of the military services and Defense Agencies, in coordination with the Director of the Defense Digital Service, shall ensure that program offices pursuing Agile Acquisition methods have access to an Agile Acquisition coach.
(2)
Expertise
The Agile Acquisition coach shall possess expertise in—
(A)
commercial Agile Acquisition methods; and
(B)
the acquisition system and processes of the Department of Defense.
(3)
Duties
The Agile Acquisition coach shall—
(A)
assist program offices, supporting stakeholder organizations, and personnel in properly applying Agile Acquisition methods; and
(B)
notify the appropriate acquisition authorities if programs are deviating from best practices or are not receiving appropriate support from stakeholder organizations, in a manner or to a degree that threatens the success of the program.
(e)
Agile Acquisition research program
The President of the Defense Acquisition University shall establish a research program to conduct research on and development of Agile Acquisition practices and tools best tailored to meet the mission needs of the Department of Defense.
(f)
Definitions
In this section the term “Agile Acquisition”—
(1)
means acquisition pursuant to a methodology for delivering multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for operational use, evaluation, and feedback; and
(2)
involves—
(A)
the incremental development and fielding of capabilities, commonly called “spirals”, “spins”, or “sprints”, which can be measured in a few weeks or months; and
(B)
continuous participation and collaboration by users, testers, and requirements authorities.
844.
Credits to Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund
Section 1705(d)(2)(D) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(D)
The Secretary of Defense may adjust the amount specified in subparagraph (C) for a fiscal year if the Secretary determines that the amount is greater or less than reasonably needed for purposes of the Fund for such fiscal year. The Secretary may not adjust the amount for a fiscal year to an amount that is more than $600,000,000 or less than $400,000,000.
.
E
Provisions related to commercial items
851.
Modification to definition of commercial items
Section 2376 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
commercial item
,
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
The term
commercial item
has the meaning given the term in section 103 of title 41, except that it does not include an item referred to in paragraph (3)(B) of such section if, after the minor modifications made to meet Federal Government requirements referred to in such paragraph, the item includes a preponderance of government-unique functions or essential characteristics.
.
852.
Revision to definition of commercial item
Section 103(8) of title 41, United States Code, is amended by striking
to multiple State and local governments
and inserting
to multiple State, local, or foreign governments
.
853.
Commercial item determinations
Section 2380 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
The Secretary
and inserting
(a)
In general
.—The Secretary
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
Items previously acquired using commercial item acquisition procedures
(1)
Determinations
A contract or subcontract for an item using commercial item acquisition procedures under part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall serve as a prior commercial item determination with respect to such item for purposes of this chapter unless the Secretary of Defense determines in writing that it is no longer cost-effective to procure the item using commercial item acquisition procedures.
(2)
Limitation
(A)
Except as provided under subparagraph (B), funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense may not be used for the procurement under part 15 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation of an item that was previously acquired using commercial item acquisition procedures under part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(B)
The limitation under subparagraph (A) does not apply to the procurement of an item that was previously acquired using commercial item acquisition procedures under part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation following—
(i)
a written determination by the head of contracting activity pursuant to section 2306a(b)(4)(B) of this title that the use of such procedures was improper; or
(ii)
a written determination by the Secretary of Defense that it is no longer cost-effective to procure the item using such procedures.
.
854.
Preference for acquisition of commercial items
Section 2377(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (6) as subparagraphs (A) through (F), respectively, and moving such subparagraphs, as so redesignated, two ems to the right;
(2)
by striking
The head
and inserting
(1) The head
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
The preference for the acquisition of commercial items and nondevelopmental items under this section shall take priority over any small business set-aside program, and shall require, to the maximum extent practicable, the acquisition of commercial items or nondevelopmental items other than commercial items in accordance with the terms of this section. If the requirements of an agency with respect to a procurement of supplies or services can be met with commercial items or nondevelopmental items other than commercial items provided by a small business concern, the small business concern may be awarded the contract in accordance with the requirements of a set-aside program.
.
855.
Inapplicable laws and regulations
(a)
Review of determinations not to exempt Department of Defense contracts for commercial items and
commercially available off-the-shelf items from certain laws and
regulations
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
review each determination of the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council pursuant to section 1906(b)(2), section 1906(c)(3), or section 1907(a)(2) of title 41, United States Code, not to exempt contracts and subcontracts described in subsection (a) of section 2375 of title 10, United States Code, from laws such contracts and subcontracts would otherwise be exempt from under section 1906(d) of title 41, United States Code; and
(2)
revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to provide an exemption from each law subject to such determination unless the Secretary determines there is a specific reason not to provide the exemption.
(b)
Elimination of certain contract clause requirements applicable to commercial item contracts
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to eliminate all regulations promulgated after the date of the enactment of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 (
Public Law 103–355
) that require a specific contract clause for a contract using commercial item acquisition procedures under part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, except for regulations required by law or that the Secretary determines are vital to national security.
(c)
Elimination of certain contract clause requirements applicable to commercially available
off-the-shelf item subcontracts
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to eliminate all requirements for a prime contractor to include a specific contract clause in a subcontract for commercially available off-the-shelf items unless the inclusion of such clause is required by law or is necessary for the contractor to meet the requirements of the prime contract.
F
Industrial base matters
861.
Review regarding applicability of foreign ownership, control, or influence requirements of National
Security Industrial Program to national technology and industrial base
companies
(a)
Review
The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall review whether companies whose ownership or majority control is based in countries that are part of the national technology and industrial base should be exempted from the foreign ownership, control, or influence (FOCI) requirements of the National Security Industrial Program.
(b)
Authority
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may establish a program to carry out the exemption process described under subsection (a). Under the program, the Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall maintain a list of companies owned or controlled by countries that are part of the national technology and industrial base that are eligible for exemption from the requirements described under such subsection.
(2)
Determinations of eligibility
The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, may designate a company under paragraph (1) as exempt from the requirements described under subsection (a) upon a determination that such exemption—
(A)
is beneficial to improving collaboration within countries participating in the national technology and industrial base;
(B)
is in the United States national security interest; and
(C)
will not result in a greater risk of the disclosure of classified or sensitive information consistent with the National Security Industrial Program.
(3)
Exercise of authority
The authority under paragraph (1) to exempt a listed company from the requirements described under subsection (a) may be exercised beginning on the date that is the later of—
(A)
the date that is 60 days after the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, submits to the congressional defense committees a report summarizing the review conducted under such subsection; and
(B)
the date that is 30 days after the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, submits to the congressional defense committees a written notification of a determination under paragraph (2) to exempt the company from such requirements, including a discussion of the issues related to the foreign ownership or control of the company that were considered as part of the determination.
(c)
National technology and industrial base defined
In this section, the term
national technology and industrial base
has the meaning given the term in section 2500 of title 10, United States Code.
862.
Pilot program on strengthening manufacturing in defense industrial base
(a)
Pilot program required
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of increasing the capability of the defense industrial base to support—
(1)
production needs to meet military requirements; and
(2)
manufacturing and production of emerging defense and commercial technologies of military value.
(b)
Authorities
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program under the following:
(1)
The Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4501
et seq.).
(2)
Chapters 137 and 139 and sections 2371, 2371b, and 2373 of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Such other legal authorities as the Secretary considers applicable to carrying out the pilot program.
(c)
Activities
Activities under the pilot program may include the following:
(1)
Use of contracts, grants, or other transaction authorities to support manufacturing and production capabilities in small and medium sized manufacturers.
(2)
Purchases of quantities of goods or equipment for testing and qualification purposes.
(3)
Purchase commitments to create incentives for industry to develop manufacturing and production capabilities of interest to national security, including cost sharing with funding from nongovernmental sources.
(4)
Issuing loans directly to small and medium sized enterprises to support manufacturing and production capabilities.
(5)
Guaranteeing loans to enable small and medium sized manufacturers to obtain private sector loans to support manufacturing and production capabilities in areas of national security interest.
(6)
Giving awards to third party entities to support investments in small and medium sized manufacturers working in areas of national security interest, including activities to support debt and equity investments that would benefit missions of the Department of Defense.
(7)
Such other activities as the Secretary determines necessary.
(d)
Termination
The pilot program shall terminate on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
863.
Sunset of certain provisions relating to the industrial base
(a)
Miscellaneous limitations on the procurement of goods other than United States goods
Section 2534 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(k)
Sunset on certain restrictions
The restriction under subsection (a) relative to the procurement of the items set forth in paragraphs (1) through (4) of such subsection shall terminate on the close of September 30, 2018.
.
(b)
Photovoltaic devices
Section 858 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
;
10 U.S.C. 2534
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(c)
Sunset
This section shall terminate on the close of September 30, 2018.
.
G
International contracting matters
865.
Procurement exception relating to agreements with foreign governments
Section 2533a of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
subsections (c) through (h)
and inserting
subsections (c) through (i)
;
(2)
by redesignating subsections (i), (j), and (k) as subsections (j), (k), and (l), respectively; and
(3)
by inserting after subsection (h) the following new subsection:
(i)
Exception relating to agreements with foreign governments
Subsection (a) does not preclude the acquisition of items described in subsection (b) as part of a weapon system if the acquisition is necessary in furtherance of an agreement with a foreign government in which both governments agree to remove barriers to purchases of supplies produced in the other country or services performed by sources of the other country.
.
866.
Applicability of cost and pricing data certification requirements
Section 2306a(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
; or
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
in subparagraph (D)(ii), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(E)
for a foreign military sale where there is already an existing Government contract—
(i)
for the same or similar item or service; and
(ii)
for which the Government has current cost and pricing data and insights into the reasonableness of price.
.
867.
Enhancing program licensing
(a)
In general
Not later than September 30, 2019, the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall establish a structure for implementing a revised program export licensing framework intended to provide comprehensive export licensing authorization to support large international cooperative defense programs between multiple nations and determine what, if any, regulatory authorities require modification.
(b)
Sustainment
The licensing framework established under subsection (a) shall require a program license for the future sustainment of all international cooperative defense programs comprised of more than five nations. The program license shall be finalized prior to the sustainment phase of that program’s acquisition lifecycle.
H
Other transactions
871.
Other transaction authority
(a)
Expanded authority for prototype projects
Subsection (a) of section 2371b of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
(1) Subject
and inserting
Subject
; and
(2)
by striking paragraphs (2) and (3).
(b)
Modification of cost sharing requirement for use of other transaction authority
Subsection (d)(1) of such section is amended by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the following new subparagraph:
(C)
At least one third of the total cost of the prototype project is to be paid out of funds provided by sources other than the Federal Government.
.
(c)
Use of other transaction authority for ongoing prototype projects
Subsection (f)(1) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following:
A transaction includes all individual prototype sub-projects awarded under the transaction to a consortium of United States industry and academic institutions.
.
872.
Education and training for transactions other than contracts and grants
Section 2371 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection:
(g)
Education and training
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that management, technical, and contracting personnel of the Department involved in the award and administration of transactions under this section or other innovative forms of contracting are afforded adequate education and training.
.
873.
Preference for use of other transactions and experimental authority
In the execution of science and technology and prototyping programs, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a preference for using transactions other than contracts, cooperative agreements, and grants entered into pursuant to sections 2371 and 2371b of title 10, United States Code, and authority for procurement for experimental purposes pursuant to section 2373 of title 10, United States Code.
874.
Methods for entering into research agreements
Section 2358(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (3), by striking
or
;
(2)
in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(5)
by transactions other than contracts, cooperative agreements, and grants entered into pursuant to sections 2371 and 2371b of this title; or
(6)
by procurement for experimental purposes pursuant to section 2373 of this title.
.
I
Development and acquisition of software intensive and digital products and services
881.
Rights in technical data
(a)
Modification of definition of technical data
Paragraph (4) of section 2302 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(4)
The term
technical data
—
(A)
means recorded information (regardless of the form or method of the recording) of a scientific or technical nature relating to supplies procured by an agency;
(B)
with respect to software, includes everything required to reproduce, build/recompile, test, and deploy working system binaries on system hardware, including all source code, revision histories, build scripts, build/compilation/modification instructions/procedures, documentation, test cases, expected test results, compilers, interpreters, test harnesses, specialized build and test hardware, connectors, cables, and library dependencies; and
(C)
does not include computer software incidental to contract administration or financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management data or other information incidental to contract administration.
.
(b)
Rights in technical data
Section 2320(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(J)
The Secretary of Defense shall require the following with respect to software delivery:
(i)
Software shall be delivered in native electronic format.
(ii)
Builds must not be dependent upon pre-defined build directories.
(iii)
In the case of licensing restrictions that do not allow library dependency inclusion, verified accessible repositories and revision history shall be documented and included.
(iv)
Commercial Off-The Shelf/Non-Development Item (COTS/NDI) shall be delivered on original Licensed Media. If firmware is part of the delivery, then a Firmware Support Manual should be included as an Appendix.
.
882.
Defense Innovation Board analysis of software acquisition regulations
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall task the Defense Innovation Board to undertake a study on streamlining software development and acquisition regulations.
(2)
Member participation
The Chairman of the Defense Innovation Board shall select appropriate members from the membership of the Board to participate in this study, and may recommend additional temporary members or contracted support personnel to the Secretary of Defense for the purposes of this study. In considering additional appointments to the study, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that members have significant technical, legislative, or regulatory expertise and reflect diverse experiences in the public and private sector.
(3)
Scope
The study conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
review the acquisition regulations applicable to the Department of Defense with a view toward streamlining and improving the efficiency and effectiveness of software acquisition in order to maintain defense technology advantage;
(B)
produce specific and detailed recommendations for any legislation, including the amendment or repeal of regulations, that the members of the Board conducting the study determine necessary to—
(i)
streamline development and procurement of software;
(ii)
adopt best practices from the private sector applicable to government use;
(iii)
promote rapid adoption of new technology;
(iv)
ensure continuing financial and ethical integrity in procurement; and
(v)
protect the best interests of the Department of Defense; and
(C)
produce such additional recommendations for legislation as such members consider appropriate.
(4)
Consultation on major program realignment
The Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Defense Innovation Board in conducting activities under the major program realignment pilot program established pursuant to section 873. The Secretary shall provide the Board with timely access to all information necessary for the Board to provide such consultation and report on the major program realignment.
(5)
Access to information
The Secretary of Defense shall provide the Defense Innovation Board with timely access to appropriate information, data, resources, and analysis so that the Board may conduct a thorough and independent analysis as required under this subsection.
(b)
Reports
(1)
Interim reports
Not later than 150 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to or brief the congressional defense committees on the interim findings of the study conducted pursuant to subsection (a). The Defense Innovation Board shall provide regular updates to the Secretary of Defense and the congressional defense committees for purposes of providing the interim report
(2)
Final report
Not later than one year after the Secretary of Defense tasks the Defense Advisory Board to conduct the study, the Board shall transmit a final report of the study to the Secretary. Not later than 30 days after receiving the final report, the Secretary of Defense shall transmit the final report, together with such comments as the Secretary determines appropriate, to the congressional defense committees.
883.
Pilot to tailor software-intensive major programs to use agile methods
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries and Chiefs of the military services, shall identify one major program per service and one defense-wide program for tailoring into smaller increments. The programs shall be selected from among those designated as major defense acquisition programs and those formerly designated as major automated information systems (excluding defense business systems).
(b)
Program selection criteria
In identifying candidate programs, the Secretary shall prioritize programs that—
(1)
are software intensive;
(2)
have identified software development as a risk;
(3)
have experienced cost growth and schedule delay; and
(4)
did not deliver any operational capability within the prior calendar year.
(c)
Realignment plan
The Secretary of Defense shall finalize a realignment plan within 60 days of programs being identified under subsection (a) that provides for the realigned program increments having a cost below the cost threshold for designation as a major acquisition.
(d)
Realignment execution
Each realigned program increment shall—
(1)
be designed to deliver a meaningfully useful capability within the first 180 days following realignment;
(2)
be designed to deliver subsequent meaningfully useful capabilities on timeframes of less than 180 days;
(3)
incorporate cross-functional teams focused on software production that prioritize user needs and control of total cost of ownership;
(4)
be staffed with highly qualified technically trained staff and personnel with management and business process expertise in leadership positions to support requirements modification, acquisition strategy, and program decisionmaking;
(5)
ensure that realigned acquisition strategies are broad enough to allow offerors to propose a service, system, modified business practice, configuration of personnel, or combination thereof as a solution;
(6)
include periodic engagement with the user community, as well as representation by the user community in program management and software production activity;
(7)
ensure realigned acquisition strategies favor outcomes-based requirements definition and capability as a service, including the establishment of technical evaluation criteria as outcomes to be used to drive service-level agreements with vendors; and
(8)
consider options for termination of the relationship with any vendor unable or unwilling to offer terms that meet the requirements of this section.
(e)
Consultation
In conducting the program selection and tailoring under this section, the Secretary shall—
(1)
use the tools, resources, and expertise of digital and innovation organizations resident in the Department, such as the Defense Innovation Board, the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental, the Defense Science Board, the Defense Digital Services, federally funded research and development centers, research laboratories, and other technical, management, and acquisition experts;
(2)
use the digital development and acquisition expertise of the General Services Administration’s Technology Transition Service, Office of 18F; and
(3)
leverage the science, technology, and innovation activities established pursuant to section 217 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2445a
note).
(f)
Agile acquisition defined
In this section, the term
agile acquisition
—
(1)
means acquisition pursuant to a methodology for delivering multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for operational use, evaluation, and feedback; and
(2)
involves—
(A)
the incremental development and fielding of capabilities, commonly called
spirals
,
spins
, or
sprints
, which can be measured in a few weeks or months; and
(B)
continuous participation and collaboration by users, testers, and requirements authorities.
884.
Review and realignment of defense business systems to emphasize agile methods
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Chief Information Officers and Chief Management Officers of the military services, shall conduct a comprehensive assessment of investments in defense business systems and prioritize no fewer than four and up to eight such systems for realignment and restructuring into smaller increments and the incorporation of agile acquisition methods.
(b)
Program assessment elements
The assessment under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A comparison of investments in business systems across the Department of Defense within each business system portfolio category, such as personnel and pay systems, accounting and financial systems, and contracting and procurement systems.
(2)
Identification of opportunities to rationalize requirements across investments within a business system portfolio.
(3)
Identification of programs within business system portfolio categories that are most closely following the best acquisition practices for software intensive systems.
(c)
Program realignment selection criteria
In identifying programs for potential realignment, the Secretary of Defense shall prioritize programs that—
(1)
did not deliver any operational capability within the prior calendar year;
(2)
have experienced cost growth and schedule delay; and
(3)
have similar user requirements to a better performing program within the same business system portfolio category.
(d)
Realignment plan
The Secretary of Defense shall finalize a realignment plan within 60 days of programs being identified under subsection (c).
(e)
Realignment execution
Each realigned program increment shall—
(1)
be designed to deliver a meaningfully useful capability within the first 180 days following realignment;
(2)
be designed to deliver subsequent meaningfully useful capabilities on timeframes of less than 180 days;
(3)
incorporate cross-functional teams focused on software production that prioritize user needs and control of total cost of ownership;
(4)
be staffed with highly qualified technically trained staff and personnel with management and business process expertise in leadership positions to support requirements modification, acquisition strategy, and program decision making;
(5)
ensure that realigned acquisition strategies are broad enough to allow offerors to propose a service, system, modified business practice, configuration of personnel, or combination thereof as a solution;
(6)
include periodic engagement with the user community as well as representation by the user community in program management and software production activity;
(7)
ensure realigned acquisition strategies favor outcomes-based requirements definition and capability as a service, including the establishment of technical evaluation criteria as outcomes to be used to drive service-level-agreements with vendors; and
(8)
consider options for termination of the relationship with any vendor unable or unwilling to offer terms that meet the requirements of this section.
(f)
Consultation
In conducting the program selection and realignments under this section, the Secretary shall—
(1)
use the tools, resources, and expertise of digital and innovation organizations resident in the Department, such as the Defense Innovation Board, the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental, the Defense Science Board, the Defense Business Board, the Defense Digital Services, federally funded research and development centers, research laboratories, and other technical, management, and acquisition experts;
(2)
use the digital development and acquisition expertise of the General Services Administration’s Technology Transition Service, Office of 18F; and
(3)
leverage the science, technology, and innovation activities established pursuant to section 217 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2445a
note).
(g)
Agile acquisition defined
In this section, the term
agile acquisition
—
(1)
means acquisition pursuant to a methodology for delivering multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for operational use, evaluation, and feedback; and
(2)
involves—
(A)
the incremental development and fielding of capabilities, commonly called “spirals”, “spins”, or “sprints”, which can be measured in a few weeks or months; and
(B)
continuous participation and collaboration by users, testers, and requirements authorities.
885.
Software development pilot using agile best practices
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall identify no fewer than four and up to eight software development activities within the Department of Defense or military departments to be developed using modern agile acquisition methods.
(b)
Streamlined processes
Software development activities identified under subsection (a) shall be developed without incorporation of the following contract or transaction requirements:
(1)
Earned Value Management (EVM) or EVM-like reporting.
(2)
Development of Integrated Master Schedule.
(3)
Development of Integrated Master Plan.
(4)
Development of Technical Requirement Document.
(5)
Development of Systems Requirement Documents.
(6)
Use of Information Technology Infrastructure Library agreements.
(7)
Use of Software Development Life Cycle (methodology).
(c)
Roles and responsibilities
(1)
In general
Selected activities shall include the following roles and responsibilities:
(A)
A program manager that is empowered to make all programmatic decisions within the overarching activity objectives, including resources, funding, personnel, and contract or transaction termination recommendations.
(B)
A product owner that reports directly to the program manager and is responsible for the overall design of the product, prioritization of roadmap elements and interpretation of their acceptance criteria, and prioritization of the list of all features desired in the product.
(C)
An engineering lead that reports directly to the program manager and is responsible for the implementation and operation of the software.
(D)
A design lead that reports directly to the program manager and is responsible for identifying, communicating, and visualizing user needs through a human centered design process.
(2)
Qualifications
The Secretary shall establish qualifications for personnel filling these positions prior to their selection. The qualifications may not include a positive education requirement and must be based on technical expertise or experience in delivery of software products, to include agile concepts.
(3)
Coordination plan for testing and certification organizations
The program manager shall ensure resources for test and certification organizations support of iterative development processes.
(d)
Plan
The Secretary of Defense or designee shall develop a plan for each selected activity under the pilot to include the following elements:
(1)
Definition of a product vision, identifying a succinct, clearly defined need the software will address.
(2)
Definition of a product road map, outlining a noncontractual plan that identifies short-term and long-term product goals and specific technology solutions to help meet those goals and adjusts to mission and user needs at the product owner’s discretion.
(3)
The use of a Broad Agency Announcement, Other Transaction Authority, or other rapid merit-based solicitation procedure.
(4)
Identification of, and continuous engagement with, end users.
(5)
Frequent and iterative end user validation of features and usability consistent with the principles outlined in the Digital Services Playbook.
(6)
Use of commercial best practices for advanced computing systems, including, where applicable—
(A)
Automated Testing, Integration, and Deployment;
(B)
compliance with applicable commercial accessibility standards;
(C)
capability to support modern versions of multiple, common web browsers;
(D)
capability to be viewable across commonly used end user devices, including mobile devices; and
(E)
built-in application monitoring.
(e)
Program schedule
The Secretary shall ensure that each selected activity includes—
(1)
award processes that take no longer than 3 months after a requirement is identified;
(2)
planned frequent and iterative end user validation of implemented features and their usability;
(3)
delivery of a functional prototype or minimally viable product in 3 months or less from award; and
(4)
follow-on delivery of iterative development cycles no longer than 4 weeks apart, including security testing and configuration management as applicable.
(f)
Oversight metrics
The Secretary shall ensure that the selected activities—
(1)
use a modern tracking tool to execute requirements backlog tracking; and
(2)
use agile development metrics that, at a minimum, track—
(A)
pace of work accomplishment;
(B)
completeness of scope of testing activities (such as code coverage, fault tolerance, and boundary testing);
(C)
product quality attributes (such as major and minor defects and measures of key performance attributes and quality attributes);
(D)
delivery progress relative to the current product roadmap; and
(E)
goals for each iteration.
(g)
Data rights
(1)
Unclassified software
(A)
Department of Defense rights
The Department of Defense shall obtain sufficient data rights for unclassified software so that all custom computer software developed under the pilot activities are managed as open source software.
(B)
Public availability
The contractor shall publicly develop and release the source code for unclassified custom software in a public repository with a license through which the copyright holder provides the rights to use, study, reuse, modify, enhance, and distribute the software to anyone and for any purpose.
(2)
Other software
For all other custom software delivered under the pilot activities, the Department of Defense shall obtain sufficient data rights to enable a third party, other than the pilot contractor, to continue development and maintenance activities throughout the program lifecycle.
(h)
Restrictions
(1)
Use of funds
No funds made available for the selected activities may be expended on estimation or evaluation using source lines of code methodologies.
(2)
Contract types
The Secretary of Defense may not use lowest price technically acceptable contracting methods or cost plus contracts to carry out selected activities under this section, and shall encourage the use of existing streamlined and flexible contracting arrangements.
(i)
Consultation
In executing the software development activities under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
use the tools, resources, and expertise of digital and innovation organizations resident in the Department, such as the Defense Innovation Board, the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental, the Defense Science Board, the Defense Business Board, the Defense Digital Services, federally funded research and development centers, research laboratories, and other technical, management, and acquisition experts; and
(2)
use, as appropriate, the digital development and acquisition expertise of the General Services Administration.
(j)
Reports
(1)
Software development activity commencement
(A)
In general
Not later than 30 days before the commencement of a software development activity under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot activity.
(B)
Elements
The report on a pilot activity under this paragraph shall set forth a description of the pilot activity, including the following information:
(i)
The purpose of the pilot activity.
(ii)
The duration of the pilot activity.
(iii)
The efficiencies and benefits anticipated to accrue to the Government under the pilot program.
(2)
Software development activity completion
(A)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the completion of a pilot activity, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot activity.
(B)
Elements
The report on a pilot activity under this paragraph shall include the following elements:
(i)
A description of results of the pilot activity.
(ii)
Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the pilot activity.
(k)
Agile acquisition defined
In this section, the term
agile acquisition
—
(1)
means acquisition pursuant to a methodology for delivering multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for operational use, evaluation, and feedback; and
(2)
involves—
(A)
the incremental development and fielding of capabilities, commonly called “spirals”, “spins”, or “sprints”, which can be measured in a few weeks or months; and
(B)
continuous participation and collaboration by users, testers, and requirements authorities.
886.
Use of open source software
(a)
Open source software
(1)
In general
Chapter 137
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2320
the following new section:
2320a.
Use of open source software
(a)
Software development
All unclassified custom-developed computer software and related technical data that is not a defense article regulated pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2778
) and that is developed under a contract or other transaction awarded by the Department of Defense on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section shall be managed as open source software unless specifically waived by the service acquisition executive.
(b)
Release of software in public repository
The Secretary of Defense shall require the contractor to release source code and related technical data described under subsection (a) in a public repository approved by the Department of Defense, subject to a license through which the copyright holder provides the rights to use, study, reuse, modify, enhance, and distribute the software to anyone and for any purpose.
(c)
Applicability to existing software
The Secretary of Defense shall, where appropriate—
(1)
apply open source licenses to existing custom-developed computer software; and
(2)
release related source code and technical data in a public repository location approved by the Department of Defense.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Custom-developed computer software
The term
custom-developed computer software
means human-readable source code, including segregable portions thereof, that is first produced in the performance of a Department of Defense contract or other transaction, or is otherwise fully funded by the Federal Government.
(2)
Technical data
The term
technical data
has the meaning given the term in section 2302 of this title.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding after the item relating to section 2320 the following new item:
2320a. Use of open source software.
.
(b)
Prize competition
The Secretary of Defense shall create a prize for a research and develop program or other activity for identifying, capturing, and storing existing Department of Defense custom-developed computer software and related technical data. The Secretary of Defense shall create an additional prize for improving, repurposing, or reusing software to better support the Department of Defense mission. The prize programs shall be conducted in accordance with section 2374a of title 10, United States Code.
(c)
Reverse engineering
The Secretary of Defense shall task the Defense Advanced Research Program Agency with a project to identify methods to locate and reverse engineer Department of Defense custom-developed computer software and related technical data for which source code is unavailable.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Custom-developed computer software
The term
custom-developed computer software
means human-readable source code, including segregable portions thereof, that is first produced in the performance of a Department of Defense contract or other transaction, or is otherwise fully funded by the Federal Government.
(2)
Technical data
The term
technical data
has the meaning given the term in section 2302 of title 10, United States Code.
(e)
Regulations
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall amend the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement to carry out this section and the amendments made by this section.
J
Other matters
891.
Improved transparency and oversight over Department of Defense research, development, test, and
evaluation efforts and procurement activities related to medical research
The Secretary of Defense may not enter into a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement for congressional special interest medical research programs under the congressionally directed medical research program of the Department of Defense unless the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement meets the following conditions:
(1)
Compliance with the cost and price data requirements under section 2306a of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Compliance with the cost accounting standards under section 1502 of title 41, United States Code.
(3)
Compliance with requirements for full and open competition under section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, without reliance on one of the exceptions set forth in subsection (c) of such section.
892.
Rights in technical data related to medical research
The Secretary of Defense may not enter into a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement for congressional special interest medical research programs under the congressionally directed medical research program of the Department of Defense unless the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement provides that the United States Government will have the same rights to the technical data to an item or process developed under the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement as applicable under section 2320(a)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, to items and processes developed exclusively with Federal funds where the medical research results in medicines and other treatments that will be procured or otherwise paid for by the Federal Government through the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, Medicare, Medicaid, or other Federal Government health programs.
893.
Oversight, audit, and certification from the Defense Contract Audit Agency for procurement
activities related to medical research
The Secretary of Defense may not enter into a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement for congressional special interest medical research programs under the congressionally directed medical research program of the Department of Defense unless the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement meets the following conditions:
(1)
Prior to obligation of any funds, review by and certification from the Defense Contract Audit Agency regarding the adequacy of the accounting systems of the proposed awardee, including a forward pricing review of the awardee's proposal.
(2)
Prior to any payment on the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement, performance by the Defense Contract Audit Agency of an incurred cost audit.
894.
Requirements for Defense Contract Audit Agency report
Subparagraph (E) of section 2313a(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(E)
the total number and dollar value of audits that are pending for a period longer than 18 months as of the end of the fiscal year covered by the report, including a breakdown by type of audit;
.
895.
Prototype projects to digitize defense acquisition regulations, policies, and guidance, and empower
user tailoring of acquisition process
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall conduct development efforts to develop prototypes to digitize defense acquisition regulations, policies, and guidance and to develop a digital decision support tool that facilitates the ability of users to tailor programs in accordance with existing laws, regulations, and guidance.
(b)
Elements
Under the prototype projects, the Secretary shall—
(1)
convert existing acquisition policies, guides, memos, templates, and reports to an online, interactive digital format to create a dynamic, integrated, and authoritative knowledge environment for purposes of assisting program managers and the acquisition workforce of the Department of Defense to navigate the complex lifecycle for each major type of acquisition program or activity of the Department;
(2)
as part of this digital environment, create a digital decision support capability that uses decision trees and tailored acquisition models to assist users to develop strategies and facilitate coordination and approvals; and
(3)
as part of this environment, establish a foundational data layer to enable advanced data analytics on the acquisition enterprise of the Department, to include business process reengineering to improve productivity.
(c)
Use of prototypes in acquisition activities
The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall encourage the use of these prototypes to model, develop, and test any procedures, policies, instructions, or other forms of direction and guidance that may be required to support acquisition training, practices, and policies of the Department of Defense.
(d)
Funding
The Secretary may use the authority under section 1705(e)(4)(B) of title 10, United States Code, to develop acquisition support prototypes and tools under this program.
896.
Pilot program for adoption of acquisition
strategy for Defense Base Act insurance
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot program for the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) for purposes of adopting an acquisition strategy for insurance required by the Defense Base Act (
42 U.S.C. 1651
et seq.) in order to minimize the cost of such insurance to the Department of Defense.
(b)
Criteria
The pilot program acquisition strategy developed pursuant to subsection (a) shall address the following criteria:
(1)
Minimize overhead costs associated with obtaining insurance required by the Defense Base Act, such as direct or indirect costs for contract management and contract administration.
(2)
Minimize costs for coverage of such insurance consistent with realistic assumptions regarding the likelihood of incurred claims by contractors of the Department and USACE.
(3)
Provide for a correlation of premiums paid in relation to claims incurred that is modeled on best practices in government and industry for similar kinds of insurance.
(4)
Provide for a competitive marketplace for insurance required by the Defense Base Act to the maximum extent practicable.
(c)
Single contract
(1)
In general
In adopting the pilot program acquisition strategy pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall enter into a single Defense Base Act insurance contract for USACE for contracts involving performance in all theaters, and potentially including combat operations.
(2)
Scope
The contract shall extend to all categories of insurance coverage, including construction, aviation, security, and services contracts.
(3)
Term
The contract entered into under this subsection shall be in effect for at least 3 years, or as considered appropriate by the Secretary.
(d)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program and the acquisition strategy adopted pursuant to subsection (a).
(2)
Elements
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
a discussion of each of the options considered and the extent to which each option addresses the criteria identified under subsection (b); and
(B)
a plan to implement within 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act the acquisition strategy adopted by the Secretary.
(e)
Review and renewal of pilot program and acquisition strategy
The Secretary shall review the pilot program and may renew the program, provided that the objectives have been reached.
897.
Phase III awards
Section 9(r)(4) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(r)(4)
) is amended by striking
shall issue Phase III awards
and inserting the following: “shall—
(A)
consider an award under the SBIR program or the STTR program to satisfy the requirements under section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, and any other applicable competition requirements; and
(B)
issue, without further justification, Phase III awards
.
898.
Pilot program for streamlined technology transition from the SBIR and STTR programs of the Department of Defense
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the terms
commercialization
,
Federal agency
,
Phase I
,
Phase II
,
Phase III
,
SBIR
, and
STTR
have the meanings given those terms in section 9(e) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(e)
);
(2)
the term
covered small business concern
means—
(A)
a small business concern that completed a Phase II award under the SBIR or STTR program of the Department; or
(B)
a small business concern that—
(i)
completed a Phase I award under the SBIR or STTR program of the Department; and
(ii)
a contracting officer for the Department recommends for inclusion in a multiple award contract described in subsection (b);
(3)
the term
Department
means the Department of Defense;
(4)
the term
multiple award contract
has the meaning given the term in section 3302(a) of title 41, United States Code;
(5)
the term
pilot program
means the pilot program established under subsection (b); and
(6)
the term
small business concern
has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
).
(b)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot program under which the Department shall award multiple award contracts to covered small business concerns for the purchase of technologies, supplies, or services that the covered small business concern has developed through the SBIR or STTR program.
(c)
Waiver of Competition in Contracting Act requirements
The Secretary of Defense may establish procedures to waive provisions of section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, for purposes of carrying out the pilot program.
(d)
Use of contract vehicle
A multiple award contract described in subsection (b) may be used by any service or component of the Department.
(e)
Termination
The pilot program established under this section shall terminate on September 30, 2023.
(f)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the commercialization of products and services produced by a small business concern under an SBIR or STTR program of a Federal agency through—
(1)
direct awards for Phase III of an SBIR or STTR program; or
(2)
any other contract vehicle.
899.
Annual report on limitation of subcontractor intellectual property rights
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for five years, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report listing all contracts entered into during the previous fiscal year using procedures under part 15 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation where the prime contractor limited the intellectual property rights of one or more subcontractors without being required to do so by the United States Government.
899A.
Extension from 20 to 30 years of maximum total period for Department of Defense contracts for
storage, handling, or distribution of liquid fuels and natural gas
(a)
Extension
Section 2922(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
a total of 20 years
and inserting
a total of 30 years
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 2027, and shall apply with respect to contracts entered into on or after such date.
899B.
Exception for Department of Defense contracts from requirement that business operations conducted
under government contracts accept and dispense $1 coins
Section 5112(p)(1) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting
, with the exception of business operations conducted by any entity under a contract with the Department of Defense,
before
shall take such action
.
899C.
Investing in rural small businesses
(a)
Flexibility for residency in HUBZones
Section 3(p)(5)(A)(i)(I) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632(p)(5)(A)(i)(I)
) is amended by striking
35 percent
each place that term appears and inserting
33 percent
.
(b)
Enabling local communities to maximize economic potential
The Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 631
et seq.) is amended—
(1)
in section 3(p)(1) (
15 U.S.C. 632(p)(1)
)—
(A)
in subparagraph (E), by striking
or
at the end;
(B)
by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (G); and
(C)
by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following:
(F)
another qualified area designated by the Administrator under section 31(d); or
; and
(2)
in section 31 (
15 U.S.C. 657a
)—
(A)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
(B)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
(d)
Other qualified areas
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection—
(A)
the term
covered area
means an area in a State—
(i)
that is located outside of an urbanized area, as determined by the Bureau of the Census; and
(ii)
with a population of not more than 50,000;
(B)
the term
governor
means the chief executive of a State; and
(C)
the term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
(2)
Designation
A governor may petition the Administrator to designate one or more covered areas as a HUBZone if the average unemployment rate of each covered area is not less than 120 percent of the average unemployment rate of the United States or of the State in which the covered area is located, whichever is less, based on the most recent data available from the American Community Survey conducted by the Bureau of the Census.
(3)
Criteria
In reviewing a petition submitted by a governor under paragraph (2), the Administrator may consider—
(A)
the potential for job creation and investment;
(B)
the demonstrated interest of small business concerns in the covered area to participate in the HUBZone program established under section 31; and
(C)
the consideration by State and local government officials of a HUBZone as part of an economic development strategy.
(4)
Petition
With respect to a petition submitted by a governor to the Administrator under paragraph (2)—
(A)
the governor may submit not more than 1 petition in a fiscal year unless the Administrator determines that an additional petition from the State of the governor is appropriate;
(B)
the governor may not submit a petition for more than 10 percent of the total number of covered areas in the State of the governor; and
(C)
if the Administrator grants the petition and designates one or more covered areas as a HUBZone, the governor shall, not less frequently than annually, submit data to the Administrator certifying that each covered area continues to meet the requirements of clauses (i) and (ii) of paragraph (1)(A).
(5)
Process
The Administrator shall establish procedures—
(A)
to ensure that the Administration accepts petitions under paragraph (2) from all States each fiscal year; and
(B)
to provide technical assistance, before the filing of a petition under paragraph (2), to a governor who is interested in filing such a petition.
.
(c)
Ensuring timely consideration of HUBZone applications
Section 3(p)(5) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632(p)(5)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(C)
Review of applications
Not later than 60 days after the date on which the Administrator receives an application from a small business concern to be certified as a qualified HUBZone small business concern under subparagraph (A)(i), the Administrator shall approve or deny the application.
.
IX
Department of Defense Organization and Management
A
Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters
901.
Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
(a)
Chief Management Officer
(1)
In general
Effective February 1, 2018, section 132a of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
132a.
Chief Management Officer
(a)
Appointment
There is a Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, appointed from civilian life by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Chief Management Officer shall be appointed from among persons who have an extensive management or business background and experience with managing large or complex organizations. A person may not be appointed as Chief Management Officer within seven years after relief from active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component of an armed force.
(b)
Responsibilities
Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Chief Management Officer shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Secretary may prescribe, including—
(1)
serving as the chief management officer of the Department of Defense with the mission of managing the business operations of the Department;
(2)
serving as the principal advisor to the Secretary on establishing policies for, and directing, all business operations of the Department, including business transformation, business planning and processes, performance management, and business information technology management and improvement activities and programs, including the allocation of resources for business operations and unifying business management efforts across the Department;
(3)
exercising authority, direction, and control over the Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities providing shared business services for the Department that are designated by the Secretary for purposes of this paragraph;
(4)
as of January 1, 2019—
(A)
serving as the Chief Information Officer of the Department for purposes of section 2222 of this title;
(B)
administering the responsibilities and duties specified in sections 11315 and 11319 of title 40, section 3506(a)(2) of title 44, and section 2223(a) of this title for business systems and management; and
(C)
any responsibilities, duties, and powers relating to business systems or management that are exercisable by a chief information officer for the Department, other than those responsibilities, duties, and powers of a chief information officer that are vested in the Chief Information Warfare Officer by section 142 of this title;
(5)
serving as the official with principal responsibility in the Department for providing for the availability of common, usable, Defense-wide data sets with applications such as improving acquisition outcomes and personnel management; and
(6)
the authority to direct the Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of all other elements of the Department with regard to matters for which the Chief Management Officer has responsibility under this section.
(c)
Precedence
The Chief Management Officer takes precedence in the Department of Defense after the Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
Effective February 1, 2018, the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 132a and inserting the following new item:
132a. Chief Management Officer.
.
(b)
Conforming repeal of prior authorities on CMO
(1)
In general
Effective on January 31, 2018, subsection (c) of section 901 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2341;
10 U.S.C. 131
note) is repealed, and the amendments to be made by paragraph (4) of that subsection shall not be made.
(2)
Further conforming amendments
Effective on February 1, 2018, section 132 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (c); and
(B)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
(c)
Conforming amendments on precedence in DoD
Effective on February 1, 2018, and immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by section 901 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017—
(1)
section 131(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (9) as paragraphs (3) through (10), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph (2):
(2)
The Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
;
(2)
section 133a(c) of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
and the Deputy Secretary of Defense
and inserting
, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, and the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
the Chief Management Officer,
after
the Deputy Secretary,
; and
(3)
section 133b(c) of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense,
after
the Deputy Secretary of Defense,
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
the Chief Management Officer,
after
the Deputy Secretary,
.
(d)
Executive Schedule Level II
Effective on February 1, 2018, and immediately after the coming into effect of the amendment made by section 901(h) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting before the item relating to the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering the following new item:
Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
.
(e)
Service of incumbent Deputy Chief Management Officer as Chief Management Officer upon commencement of latter position without further appointment
The individual serving in the position of Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense as of February 1, 2018, may continue to serve as Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense under section 132a of title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), commencing as of that date without further appointment pursuant to such section 132a.
(f)
Report on Defense Agencies and Field Activities providing shared business services
Not later than January 15, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report specifying each Defense Agency and Department of Defense Field Activity providing shared business services for the Department of Defense that is to be designated by the Secretary for purposes of subsection (b)(3) of section 132a of title 10, United States Code (as so amended), as of the coming into effect of such section 132a
(g)
Notice to Congress on transfer of oversight of Defense Agencies and Field Activities with
business-support functions to CMO
Upon the transfer of responsibility for oversight of a Defense Agency or Department of Defense Field Activity specified in subsection (c) of section 132a of title 10, United States Code (as so amended), to the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a notice on the transfer, including the Defense Agency or Field Activity subject to the transfer and a description of the nature and scope of the responsibility for oversight transferred.
902.
Realignment of responsibilities, duties, and powers of Chief Information Officer of the Department
of Defense
(a)
In general
Effective on January 1, 2019, the responsibilities, duties, and powers vested in the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense as of December 31, 2018, are realigned as follows:
(1)
There is vested in the Chief Information Warfare Officer of the Department of Defense the responsibilities, duties, and powers provided for by section 142 of title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (b)).
(2)
There is vested in the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense any responsibilities, duties, and powers vested in the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense as of December 31, 2018, that are not vested in the Chief Information Warfare Officer by paragraph (1) and such section 142.
(b)
Chief Information Warfare Officer
(1)
In general
Section 142 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
142.
Chief Information Warfare Officer
(a)
In general
(1)
There is a Chief Information Warfare Officer of the Department of Defense, who shall be appointed from among civilians who are qualified to serve as the Chief Information Warfare Officer by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(2)
The Chief Information Warfare Officer shall report directly to the Secretary of Defense in the performance of duties under this section.
(b)
Responsibility and authority
(1)
Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Chief Information Warfare Officer is responsible for all matters relating to the information environment of the Department of Defense and has the authority to establish policy for, and direct the Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of all other elements of the Department relating to, the matters as follow:
(A)
Space and space launch systems.
(B)
Communications networks and information technology (other than business systems).
(C)
National security systems.
(D)
Information assurance and cybersecurity.
(E)
Electronic warfare and cyber warfare.
(F)
Nuclear command and control and senior leadership communications systems.
(G)
Command and control systems and networks.
(H)
The electromagnetic spectrum.
(I)
Positioning, navigation, and timing.
(J)
Any other matters assigned to the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, not relating to business systems or management, in sections 2223 and 2224 of this title, sections 11315 and 11319 of title 40, and sections 3506 and 3544 of title 44.
(2)
In addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (1), the responsibilities of the Chief Information Warfare Officer include—
(A)
exercising authority, direction, and control over the missions, programs, and organizational elements pertaining to information assurance (formally Information Assurance Directorate) of the National Security Agency;
(B)
exercising authority, direction, and control over the Defense Information Systems Agency, or any successor organization, for the matters described in paragraph (1); and
(C)
responsibilities for policy, oversight, guidance, and coordination for all Department matters relating to the electromagnetic spectrum, including—
(i)
coordination with other Federal agencies and the private sector;
(ii)
coordination for classified programs; and
(iii)
in coordination with the Under Secretary for Personnel and Health, the spectrum management workforce.
(3)
Notwithstanding the exemptions for the Department of Defense in section 11319 of title 40, the authority of the Chief Information Warfare Officer to direct the secretaries of the military departments for information warfare matters as provided in paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
playing a significant and directive role in the decision processes for all annual and multi-year planning, programming, budgeting, and execution decisions, including the authority to realign the elements of the budgets and budget requests of the military departments that pertain to the responsibilities of the Chief Information Warfare Officer;
(B)
reviewing and approving any funding request or reprogramming request;
(C)
ensuring that the military departments comply with Government and Department standards on a matter described in paragraph (1) or (2);
(D)
reviewing and approving the appointment of any other employee who functions in the capacity of a Chief Information Officer or a Chief Information Warfare Officer for any component within the Department, except for the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense; and
(E)
participating in all meetings, management, and decision-making forums on issues pertaining to any matter described in paragraph (1) or (2).
(4)
The Chief Information Warfare Officer shall oversee and may require that programs of the military departments comply with such direction and standards as the Chief Information Warfare Officer may establish relating to a matter described in paragraph (1) or (2).
(5)
The Chief Information Warfare Officer shall perform such additional duties and exercise such additional powers as the Secretary may prescribe.
(c)
Chief Information Officer for certain purposes
The Chief Information Warfare Officer—
(1)
is the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense for purposes of 3554(a)(3) of title 44 and section 2224 of this title; and
(2)
in coordination with the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, is the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense for purposes of section 11315 of title 40 and section 2223 of this title.
(d)
Principal Cyber Advisor
In addition to any other duties under this section, the Chief Information Warfare Officer shall serve as Principal Cyber Advisor under section 932(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (
10 U.S.C. 2224
note).
(e)
Principal Department of Defense Space Advisor
In addition to any other duties under this section, the Chief Information Warfare Officer shall perform the duties of the Principal Department of Defense Space Advisor in accordance with Department of Defense Directive 5100.96 and any succeeding directive.
(f)
Collaborative mechanisms
(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall establish collaboration mechanisms between the Chief Information Warfare Officer and the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs for purposes of developing and overseeing the execution of offensive and defensive information warfare strategies, plans, programs, and operations.
(2)
The strategies, plans, programs and operations shall appropriately integrate cyber, electronic, and electromagnetic spectrum warfare, military deception, military information support operations, and public affairs to conduct, counter, and deter information warfare
(g)
Precedence in DoD
(1)
The Chief Information Warfare Officer shall take precedence in the Department of Defense with the officials serving in positions specified in section 131(b)(2) of this title.
(2)
The officials serving in positions specified in such section and the Chief Information Warfare Officer take precedence among themselves in the order prescribed by the Secretary.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 142 and inserting the following new item:
142. Chief Information Warfare Officer.
.
(3)
Executive Schedule Level II
Section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to the Deputy Secretary of Defense the following new item:
Chief Information Warfare Officer of the Department of Defense.
.
(4)
References
Any reference to the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States in that official's capacity as the official responsible for the information security and information dominance of the Department of Defense shall be deemed to be a reference to Chief Information Warfare Officer of the Department of Defense.
(5)
Principal Cyber Advisor
Paragraph (1) of section 932(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (
Public Law 113–66
; 127 Stat. 829;
10 U.S.C. 2224
note) is amended to read as follows:
(1)
In general
The Chief Information Warfare Officer of the Department of Defense under section 142 of title 10, United States Code, shall serve as the Principal Cyber Advisor to act as the principal advisor to the Secretary on military cyber forces and activities.
.
(6)
Standards for networks
A military department may not develop or procure a network that does not fully comply with such standards as the Chief Information Warfare Officer under section 142 of title 10, United States Code (as amended by paragraph (1)), may establish relating to a matter described in subsection (b) of such section.
(7)
Alternative proposal
Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a proposal for such alternatives or modifications to the realignment of responsibilities required by section 142 of title 10, United States Code (as so amended), as the Secretary considers appropriate, together with an implementation plan for such proposal. The proposal may not be carried out unless approved by statute.
(8)
Quarterly briefing on implementation
Not later than January 30, 2018, and every 90 days thereafter through January 1, 2019, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the status of the implementation of the Chief Information Warfare Officer of the Department of Defense under section 142 of title 10, United States Code (as so amended), during the preceding 90 days.
(9)
Effective date
(A)
In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), this subsection and the amendments made by this subsection shall take effect on January 1, 2019.
(B)
Interim matters
Paragraphs (7) and (8) of this subsection shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
903.
Clarification of authority of Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment with
respect to service acquisition programs for which the service acquisition
executive is the milestone decision authority
Effective on February 1, 2018, and immediately after the coming into effect of the amendment made by section 901(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), subsection (b)(6) of section 133b of title 10, United States Code, as added by such section 901(b), is amended by striking
supervisory authority
and inserting
advisory authority
.
904.
Executive Schedule matters relating to Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
(a)
Inapplicability of pending amendment
The amendment to be made by section 901(h) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2342) with regard to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall not be made.
(b)
Executive Schedule Level III
Effective on February 1, 2018, section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting before the item relating to the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy the following:
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
.
905.
Technical amendment
Section 901(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2339;
10 U.S.C. 133a
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
Research and Engineering
.—
and all that follows through
Effective on February 1, 2018
and inserting
Research and Engineering
.—Effective on February 1, 2018
; and
(2)
by striking paragraph (2).
906.
Redesignation of Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness as Under Secretary of
Defense for Personnel and Health
(a)
Redesignation
(1)
In general
Section 136 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
and Readiness
each place it appears and inserting
and Health
.
(2)
Heading amendment
The heading of such section is amended to read as follows:
136.
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Health
.
(3)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 136 and inserting the following new item:
136. Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Health.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Title 10
(A)
Subparagraph (D) of section 131(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(D)
The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Health.
.
(B)
Section 137(c) of such title is amended by striking
and Readiness
and inserting
and Health
.
(2)
Executive Schedule Level III
Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and inserting the following new item:
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Health.
.
(c)
References
Any reference to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be deemed to be a reference to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Health.
907.
Qualifications for appointment and additional duties and powers of certain officials within the
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller)
(a)
Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)
(1)
Qualification for appointment
Subsection (a) of section 135 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by inserting
(1)
after
(a)
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
(A)
Any individual appointed as Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall be an individual who—
(i)
has significant financial management service in—
(I)
a Federal or State agency that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such agency’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(II)
a public company that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such company’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(ii)
has served as chief financial officer, deputy chief financial officer, or an equivalent executive-level position with direct authority for financial management in a large public or private sector organization.
(B)
In this paragraph, the term
public company
has the meaning given the term
issuer
in section 2(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (
15 U.S.C. 7201(7)
).
.
(2)
Duties and powers
Such section is further amended—
(A)
by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
In addition to any duties under subsection (c), the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, do the following:
(1)
Provide guidance and instruction on annual performance plans and evaluations to the following:
(A)
The Assistant Secretaries of the military departments for financial management.
(B)
Any other official of an agency, organization, or element of the Department of Defense with responsibility for financial management.
(2)
Give directions to the military departments, Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the Department of Defense regarding their financial statements and the audit and audit readiness of such financial statements.
.
(b)
Deputy Chief Financial Officer
(1)
Qualification for appointment
Any individual appointed as Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Defense shall be an individual who—
(A)
has significant financial management service in—
(i)
a Federal or State agency that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such agency’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(ii)
a public company that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such company’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(B)
has served as chief financial officer, deputy chief financial officer, or an equivalent executive-level position with direct authority for financial management in a large public or private sector organization.
(2)
Public company defined
In this subsection, the term
public company
has the meaning given the term
issuer
in section 2(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (
15 U.S.C. 7201(7)
).
(c)
Applicability
This section and the amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to appointments that are made on or after that date.
908.
Five-year period of relief from active duty as a commissioned officer of a
regular component of the Armed Forces for appointment to Under
Secretary of Defense positions
(a)
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering
Effective on February 1, 2018, and immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by subsection (a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (130 Stat. 2339), section 133a(a) of title 10, United States Code (as added by such subsection (a)), is amended by striking
seven years
and inserting
five years
.
(b)
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
Effective on February 1, 2018, and immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by subsection (b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (130 Stat. 2340), section 133b(a) of title 10, United States Code (as added by such subsection (b)), is amended by striking
seven years
and inserting
five years
.
(c)
Under Secretary of Defense for Policy
Section 134(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
seven years
and inserting
five years
.
(d)
Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)
Section 135(a) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
A person may not be appointed as Under Secretary within five years after relief from active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component of the armed forces.
.
(e)
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Health
Subsection (a) of section 136 of such title, as amended by section 906(a) of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
A person may not be appointed as Under Secretary within five years after relief from active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component of the armed forces.
.
(f)
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence
Section 137(a) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
A person may not be appointed as Under Secretary within five years after relief from active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component of the armed forces.
.
909.
Redesignation of Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense as Deputy Under Secretaries
of Defense and related matters
(a)
Redesignation
Section 137a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
Principal
each place it appears.
(b)
Increase in authorized number
Subsection (a)(1) of such section is amended by striking
five
and inserting
six
.
(c)
Replacement of ATL position with two positions in connection with OSD reform
Subsection (c) of such section is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (5) as paragraphs (3) through (6), respectively; and
(2)
by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
(1)
One of the Deputy Under Secretaries is the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
(2)
One of the Deputy Under Secretaries is the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
.
(d)
Redesignation of DUSD for Personnel and Readiness as DUSD for Personnel and Health
Paragraph (4) of subsection (c) of such section, as amended and redesignated by this section, is further amended by striking
Personnel and Readiness
and inserting
Personnel and Health
.
(e)
Conforming amendments
(1)
OSD
Paragraph (6) of section 131(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(6)
The Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense.
.
(2)
Precedence
Section 138(d) of such title is amended by striking
Principal
.
(f)
Executive schedule level IV
(1)
In general
Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by striking
Principal
in the items relating to the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), and the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence; and
(B)
by striking the item relating to the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and inserting the following new item:
Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Health.
.
(2)
OSD reform
Section 5315 of such title is further amended by inserting before the item relating to the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, as amended by paragraph (1)(A), the following new items:
Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
.
(g)
Clerical amendments
(1)
Heading amendment
The heading of section 137a of such title is amended to read as follows:
137a.
Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 137a and inserting the following new item:
137a. Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense.
.
(h)
Effective dates
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
ATL position amendments
The amendments made by subsections (b), (c), and (f)(2) of this section shall take effect on February 1, 2018, immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) of section 901 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2339), to which the amendments made by subsections (b), (c), and (f)(2) of this section relate.
910.
Reduction of number and elimination of specific designations of Assistant Secretaries of
Defense
(a)
Reduction of authorized number
Subsection (a)(1) of section 138 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
14
and inserting
13
.
(b)
Elimination of certain specific designations
Subsection (b) of such section is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraphs (2), (3), and (5); and
(2)
by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (6) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively.
911.
Limitation on maximum number of Deputy Assistant Secretaries of Defense
The maximum number of Deputy Assistant Secretaries of Defense after the date of the enactment of this Act may not exceed 46.
912.
Modification of definition of OSD personnel for purposes of limitation on number of Office of
Secretary of Defense personnel
(a)
Modification
(1)
In general
Section 143(b) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 903(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is further amended by striking
and detailed personnel
and inserting
detailed, and contractor personnel
.
(2)
Effective date
The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on October 1, 2018.
(b)
Report on number of contractor personnel in OSD and each secretariate of the military departments
Not later than December 31, 2017, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report specifying the following:
(1)
The number of contractor personnel in the Office of the Secretary of Defense as of October, 1, 2017.
(2)
The number of contractor personnel in each office of a Secretary of a military department as of October 1, 2017.
B
Organization of Other Department of Defense Offices and Elements
921.
Reduction in authorized number of Assistant Secretaries of the military departments
(a)
Assistant Secretaries of the Army
Section 3016(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
five
and inserting
four
.
(b)
Assistant Secretaries of the Navy
Section 5016(a) of such title is amended by striking
four
and inserting
three
.
(c)
Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force
Section 8016(a) of such title is amended by striking
four
and inserting
three
.
922.
Qualifications for appointment of Assistant Secretaries of the military departments for financial management
(a)
Assistant Secretary of the Army
Section 3016(b)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(A)
after
(4)
;
(2)
by striking
The Assistant Secretary shall have as his principal responsibility
and inserting the following:
(C)
The principal responsibility of the Assistant Secretary shall be
; and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), the following new subparagraph (B):
(B)
(i)
Any individual appointed as Assistant Secretary shall be an individual who—
(I)
has significant financial management service in—
(aa)
a Federal or State agency that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such agency’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(bb)
a public company that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such company’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(II)
has served as chief financial officer, deputy chief financial officer, or an equivalent executive-level position with direct authority for financial management in a large public or private sector organization.
(ii)
In this subparagraph, the term
public company
has the meaning given the term
issuer
in section 2(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (
15 U.S.C. 7201(7)
).
.
(b)
Assistant Secretary of the Navy
Section 5016(b)(3) of such title is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(A)
after
(3)
;
(2)
by striking
The Assistant Secretary shall have as his principal responsibility
and inserting the following:
(C)
The principal responsibility of the Assistant Secretary shall be
; and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), the following new subparagraph (B):
(B)
(i)
Any individual appointed as Assistant Secretary shall be an individual who—
(I)
has significant financial management service in—
(aa)
a Federal or State agency that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such agency’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(bb)
a public company that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such company’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(II)
has served as chief financial officer, deputy chief financial officer, or an equivalent executive-level position with direct authority for financial management in a large public or private sector organization.
(ii)
In this subparagraph, the term
public company
has the meaning given the term
issuer
in section 2(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (
15 U.S.C. 7201(7)
).
.
(c)
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
Section 8016(b)(3) of such title is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(A)
after
(3)
;
(2)
by striking
The Assistant Secretary shall have as his principal responsibility
and inserting the following:
(C)
The principal responsibility of the Assistant Secretary shall be
; and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), the following new subparagraph (B):
(B)
(i)
Any individual appointed as Assistant Secretary shall be an individual who—
(I)
has significant financial management service in—
(aa)
a Federal or State agency that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such agency’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(bb)
a public company that received an audit with an unqualified opinion on such company’s financial statements during the time of such individual’s service; or
(II)
has served as chief financial officer, deputy chief financial officer, or an equivalent executive-level position with direct authority for financial management in a large public or private sector organization.
(ii)
In this subparagraph, the term
public company
has the meaning given the term
issuer
in section 2(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (
15 U.S.C. 7201(7)
).
.
(d)
Applicability
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to appointments that are made on or after that date.
C
Organization and Management of the Department of Defense Generally
931.
Reduction in limitation on number of Department of Defense SES positions
Section 1109(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended by striking
1,260
and inserting
1,140
.
932.
Manner of carrying out reductions in major Department of Defense headquarters activities
Section 346(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 796;
10 U.S.C. 111
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Manner of carrying out reductions
Reductions in major Department of Defense headquarters activities pursuant to the headquarters reduction plan referred to in paragraph (1), as modified pursuant to that paragraph, shall be carried out after a consideration of the current manpower levels, historic manpower levels, mission requirements, and anticipated staffing needs of such headquarters activities necessary to meet national defense objectives. Further, the plan required by subsection (a) shall be modified to take into account the requirement in the preceding sentence.
.
933.
Certifications on cost savings achieved by reductions in major Department of Defense headquarters
activities
Section 346(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 796
10 U.S.C. 111
note), as amended by section 932 of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
Certifications on cost savings achieved
Not later than 60 days after close of each of fiscal years 2017 through 2020, the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation shall certify to the Secretary of Defense, and to the congressional defense committees, the following:
(A)
The validity of the cost savings achieved for each major Department of Defense headquarters activity during the fiscal year concerned.
(B)
Whether the cost savings achieved for each major Department of Defense headquarters activity during the fiscal year concerned met the savings objective for such activity for such fiscal year, as established pursuant to paragraph (1).
.
934.
Direct hire authority for the Department of Defense for personnel to assist in business
transformation and management
innovation
(a)
Authority
The Secretary of Defense may appoint in the Department of Defense individuals described in subsection (b) without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of
chapter 33
of title 5, United States Code, for the purpose of assisting and facilitating the efforts of the Department in business transformation and management innovation.
(b)
Covered individuals
The individuals described in this subsection are individuals who have all of the following:
(1)
A management or business background.
(2)
Experience working with large or complex organizations.
(3)
Expertise in management and organizational change, data analytics, or business process design.
(c)
Limitation on number
The number of individuals appointed pursuant to this section at any one time may not exceed 25 individuals.
(d)
Nature of appointment
Any appointment under this section shall be on a term basis. The term of any such appointment shall be specified by the Secretary at the time of the appointment.
935.
Data analytics capability for support of enhanced oversight and management of the Defense Agencies
and Department of Defense Field Activities
(a)
Data analytics capability required
(1)
In general
By not later than September 30, 2020, the Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense shall establish and maintain within the Department of Defense a data analytics capability for purposes of supporting enhanced oversight and management of the Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities.
(2)
Discharge through successor position
If the position of Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense is succeeded by another position in the Department, the duties of the Deputy Chief Management Officer under this section shall be discharged by the occupant of such succeeding position.
(b)
Elements
The data analytics capability shall permit the following:
(1)
The maintenance on a continuing basis of an accurate tabulation of the amounts being expended by the Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities on their personnel.
(2)
The maintenance on a continuing basis of an accurate number of the personnel currently supporting the Defense Agencies and Field Activities, including the following:
(A)
Members of the regular components of the Armed Forces.
(B)
Members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
(C)
Civilian employees of the Department of Defense.
(D)
Employees of contractors of the Department, including federally funded research and development centers.
(E)
Detailees, whether from another organization or element of the Department or from another department or agency of the Federal Government.
(3)
The maintenance of a continuing basis of the following:
(A)
An identification of the functions being performed by each Defense Agency and Field Activity.
(B)
An accurate tabulation of the amounts being expended by each Defense Agency and Field Activity on its functions.
(4)
The streamlined assembly and analysis of data for purposes of the capability, including through appropriate automated processes.
(c)
Resources
In establishing the data analytics capability, the Deputy Chief Management Officer may use the following:
(1)
Data and information from each of the Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities.
(2)
Data and information from the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC).
(3)
Subject to the direction and control of the Secretary of Defense, any other resources of the Department the Deputy Chief Management Officer considers appropriate.
(d)
Reports
(1)
Interim report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Deputy Chief Management Officer shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the progress of the Deputy Chief Management Officer in establishing the data analytics capability. The report shall include the following:
(A)
A description and assessment of the efforts of the Deputy Chief Management Officer through the date of the report to establish the data analytics capability.
(B)
A description of current gaps in the data required to establish the data analytics capability, and a description of the efforts to be undertaken to eliminate such gaps.
(C)
Any other matters in connection with the establishment of the data analytics capability that the Deputy Chief Management Officer considers appropriate.
(2)
Final report
Not later than December 31, 2020, the Deputy Chief Management Officer shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the data analytics capability as established pursuant to this section. The report shall include the following:
(A)
A description and assessment of the data analytics capability.
(B)
Any other matters in connection with the data analytics capability that the Deputy Chief Management Officer considers appropriate.
936.
Enhanced use of data analytics to improve acquisition program outcomes
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, acting jointly through the Deputy Chief Management Officer and the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, and in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the Armed Forces, establish a set of activities that use data analysis, measurement, and other evaluation-related methods to improve the acquisition outcomes of the Department of Defense and enhance organizational learning.
(b)
Activities
(1)
In general
The set of activities established under subsection (a) may include the following:
(A)
Establishment of data analytics capabilities and organizations within the appropriate military service.
(B)
Development of capabilities in Department of Defense laboratories, test centers, and Federally funded research and development centers to provide technical support for data analytics activities that support acquisition program management and business process re-engineering activities.
(C)
Increased use of existing analytical capabilities available to acquisition programs and offices to support improved acquisition outcomes.
(D)
Funding of intramural and extramural research and development activities to develop and implement data analytics capabilities in support of improved acquisition outcomes.
(E)
Publication, to the maximum extent practicable, and in a manner that protects classified and proprietary information, of data collected by the Department related to acquisition program costs and activities for access and analyses by the general public.
(F)
Clarification by the Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and the Commandant of the Marine Corps, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, of a consistent policy as to the role of data analytics in establishing budgets and making milestone decisions for major defense acquisition programs.
(G)
Continual assessment, in consultation with the private sector, of the efficiency of current data collection and analyses processes, so as to minimize the requirement for collection and delivery of data by, from, and to government organizations.
(H)
Promulgation of guidance to acquisition programs and activities on the efficient use and sharing of data between programs and organizations to improve acquisition program analytics and outcomes.
(I)
Promulgation of guidance on assessing and enhancing quality of data and data analyses to support improved acquisition outcomes.
(2)
Gap analysis of current activities
The Secretary shall, in coordination with the Armed Forces, identify the current activities, organizations, and groups of personnel that are pursuing tasks similar to those described in paragraph (1) that are being carried out as of the date of the enactment of this Act. The Secretary shall consider such current activities, organizations, and personnel in determining the set of activities to establish pursuant to subsection (a).
(3)
Training and education
The Secretary shall, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, conduct a review of the curriculum taught at the National Defense University, the Defense Acquisition University, and appropriate private sector academic institutions to determine the extent to which the curricula include appropriate courses on data analytics and other evaluation-related methods and their application to defense acquisitions.
(c)
Discharge of certain duties
After January 31, 2018—
(1)
any duties under this section to be discharged by the Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense shall be discharged by the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense; and
(2)
any duties under this section to be discharged by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall be discharged by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
937.
Pilot programs on data integration strategies for the Department of Defense
(a)
Pilot programs required
The Secretary of Defense shall, acting through the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, carry out pilot programs to develop data integration strategies for the Department of Defense to address high-priority challenges of the Department.
(b)
Scope of pilot programs
The pilot programs required by subsection (a) shall involve data integration strategies to address challenges of the Department with respect to the following:
(1)
The budget of the Department.
(2)
Logistics.
(3)
Personnel security and insider threats.
(4)
At least two other high-priority challenges of the Department identified by the Secretary for purposes of this section.
(c)
Elements
In developing a data integration strategy to address a challenge of the Department for purposes of a pilot program under this section, the Secretary shall do the following:
(1)
Identify the elements of the Department, and the officials of such elements, to be involved in carrying out the data integration strategy.
(2)
Specify the elements of the data integration strategy.
(3)
Specify the policies of the Department, if any, to be modified or waived in order to facilitate the carrying out of the data integration strategy by enabling timely and continuous sharing of information needed to solve the challenge concerned.
(d)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot programs to be carried out under this section.
(2)
Elements
The report shall include the following:
(A)
A description of each pilot program, including the challenge of the Department to be addressed by such pilot program and the manner in which the data integration strategy under such pilot program will address the challenge.
(B)
If the carrying out of any pilot program requires legislative action for the waiver or modification of a statutory requirement that prevents or impedes the carrying out of the pilot program, a recommendation for legislative action to waive or modify such statutory requirement.
938.
Background and security investigations for Department of Defense personnel
(a)
Transition to discharge by Defense Security Service
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense has the authority to conduct security, suitability, and credentialing background investigations. In carrying out such authority, the Secretary may use such authority, or may delegate such authority to another entity. As part of providing for the conduct of background investigations initiated by the Department of Defense through the Defense Security Service by not later than the deadline specified in subsection (b), the Secretary shall, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, provide for a phased transition from the conduct of such investigations by the National Background Investigations Bureau (NBIB) of the Office of Personnel Management to the conduct of such investigations by the Defense Security Service by that deadline.
(2)
Phased transition
The phased transition required by paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
provide for the transition of the conduct of investigations to the Defense Security Service using a risk management approach; and
(B)
be consistent with the transition from legacy information technology operated by the Office of Personnel Management to the new information technology, including the National Background Investigations System, as described in subsection (f).
(b)
Commencement of implementation plan for ongoing discharge of investigations through DSS
Not later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall commence carrying out the implementation plan developed pursuant to section 951(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2371).
(c)
Transfer of certain functions within DoD to DSS
(1)
In general
For purposes of meeting the requirements in subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of Defense shall transfer the functions, personnel, and associated resources of the organizations specified in paragraph (2) to the Defense Security Service.
(2)
Organizations
The organizations specified in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
The Consolidated Adjudications Facility.
(B)
The Personnel Security Assurance Division of the Defense Manpower Data Center.
(C)
Other organizations identified by the Secretary for purposes of this subsection.
(3)
Supporting organizations
In addition to the organizations identified pursuant to (2), the following organizations shall prioritize resources to directly support the execution of requirements in subsections (a) and (b):
(A)
The Office of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation.
(B)
The Defense Digital Services.
(C)
Other organizations designated by the Secretary for purposes of this paragraph.
(4)
Timing and manner of transfer
The Secretary—
(A)
may carry out the transfer required by paragraph (1) at any time before the date specified in subsection (b) that the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of this section; and
(B)
shall carry out the transfer in a manner designed to minimize disruptions to the conduct of background investigations for personnel of the Department of Defense.
(d)
Transfer of certain functions in OPM to DSS
(1)
In general
For purposes of meeting the requirements in subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, provide for the transfer of the functions described in paragraph (2), and any associated personnel and resources, to the Department of Defense.
(2)
Functions
The functions described in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
Any personnel security investigations functions transferred by the Secretary to the Director pursuant to section 906 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (
5 U.S.C. 1101
note).
(B)
Any other functions of the Office of Personnel Management in connection with background investigations initiated by the Department of Defense that the Secretary and the Director jointly consider appropriate.
(3)
Location within DoD
Any functions transferred to the Department pursuant to this subsection shall be located within the Defense Security Service.
(e)
Conduct of certain actions
For purposes of the conduct of background investigations following the commencement of the carrying out of the implementation plan referred to in subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall provide for the following:
(1)
A single capability for the centralized funding, submissions, and processing of all background investigations, from within the Defense Security Service.
(2)
The discharge by the Consolidated Adjudications Facility, from within the Defense Security Service pursuant to transfer under subsection (c), of adjudications in connection with the following:
(A)
Background investigations.
(B)
Continuous evaluation and vetting checks.
(f)
Enhancement of information technology capabilities of NBIS
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, conduct a review of the information technology capabilities of the National Background Investigations System (NBIS) in order to determine whether enhancements to such capabilities are required for the following:
(A)
Support for background investigations pursuant to this section and section 951 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
(B)
Support of the National Background Investigations Bureau.
(C)
Execution of the conduct of background investigations initiated by the Department of Defense pursuant to this section, including submissions and adjudications.
(2)
Common component
In providing for the transition and operation of the System as described in paragraph (1)(C), the Secretary shall, in consultation with the Director, develop a common component of the System usable for background investigations by both the Defense Security Service and the National Background Investigations Bureau.
(3)
Enhancements
If the review pursuant to paragraph (1) determines that enhancements described in that paragraph are required, the Secretary shall, in consultation with the Director, carry out such enhancements.
(g)
Use of certain private industry data
In carrying out background and security investigations pursuant to this section and section 951 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, the Secretary of Defense may use background materials collected on individuals by the private sector, in accordance with national policies and standards, that are applicable to such investigations, including materials as follows:
(1)
Financial information, including credit scores and credit status.
(2)
Criminal records.
(3)
Drug screenings.
(4)
Verifications of information on resumes and employment applications (such as previous employers, educational achievement, and educational institutions attended).
(5)
Other publicly available electronic information.
(h)
Security clearances for contractor personnel
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall review the requirements of the Department of Defense relating to position sensitivity designations for contractor personnel in order to determine whether such requirements may be reassessed or modified to reduce the number and range of contractor personnel who are issued security clearances in connection with work under contracts with the Department.
(2)
Guidance
The Secretary shall issue guidance to program managers, contracting officers, and security personnel of the Department specifying requirements for the review of contractor position sensitivity designations and the number of contractor personnel of the Department who are issued security clearances for the purposes of determining whether the number of such personnel who are issued security clearances should and can be reduced.
(i)
Personnel To support the transfer of functions
The Secretary of Defense shall authorize the Director of the Defense Security Service to promptly increase personnel for the purpose of beginning the establishment and expansion of investigative capacity to support the phased transfer of investigative functions from the Office of Personnel Management to the Department of Defense under this section. The Director of Cost Analysis and Program Assessment shall advise the Secretary on the size of the initial investigative workforce and the rate of growth of that workforce.
(j)
Briefings and reports
(1)
Report on future periodic reinvestigations, insider threat, and continuous vetting
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, submit to Congress a report that includes the following:
(A)
An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of periodic reinvestigations of backgrounds of Government and contractor personnel with security clearances.
(B)
A plan to provide the Government with an enhanced risk management model which reduces the gaps in coverage perpetuated by the current time-based periodic reinvestigations model, particularly in light of the increasing use of continuous background evaluations of such personnel.
(C)
A plan for expanding continuous background vetting capabilities such as the Installation Matching Engine for Security and Analysis to the broader population, including those at the lowest Tiers and levels of access, which plan shall include details to ensure that all individuals credentialed for physical access to Department of Defense facilities and installations are vetted to the same level of fitness determinations and subject to appropriate continuous vetting.
(D)
A plan to fully integrate and incorporate insider threat data, tools, and capabilities into the new end-to-end vetting processes and supporting information technology established by the Defense Security Service to ensure a holistic and transformational approach to detecting, deterring, and mitigating threats posed by trusted insiders.
(2)
Quarterly briefings
Not later than the end of each calendar year quarter after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the progress of the Secretary in carrying out the requirements of this section during such calendar year quarter. Until the backlog of security clearance applications at the National Background Investigations Bureau is eliminated, each quarterly briefing shall also include the current status of the backlog and the resulting mission and resource impact to the Department of Defense and the defense industrial base.
(3)
Annual reports
Not later than the end of each calendar year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the committees of Congress referred to in paragraph (2) a report on the following for the calendar year in which such report is to be submitted:
(A)
The status of the Secretary in meeting the requirements in subsections (a), (b), and (c) as of the end of such calendar year.
(B)
The status as of the end of such calendar year of any transfers to be carried out pursuant to subsection (d).
(C)
An assessment of the personnel security capabilities of the Department of Defense as of the end of such calendar year.
(4)
Termination
No briefing or report is required pursuant to paragraph (2) or (3) after December 31, 2020.
D
Other Matters
951.
Transfer of lead of Guam Oversight Council from the Deputy Secretary of Defense to the Secretary of the Navy
(a)
Transfer
Section 5013 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(h)
Until September 30, 2020, the Secretary of the Navy shall lead the Guam Oversight Council and shall be the principal representative of the Department of Defense for coordinating the interagency efforts in matters relating to Guam, including the following executive orders:
(1)
Executive Order No. 13299 of May 12, 2003 (68 Fed. Reg. 25477; 48 U.S.C. note prec. 1451; relating to the Interagency Group on Insular Affairs).
(2)
Executive Order No. 12788 of January 15, 1992, as amended (57 Fed. Reg. 2213; relating to the Defense Economic Adjustment Program).
.
(b)
Repeal of superseded authority
Section 132 of such title is amended by striking subsection (e).
952.
Corrosion control and prevention executives matters
(a)
Scope and level of positions
Subsection (a) of section 903 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
10 U.S.C. 2228
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
shall be the senior official
and inserting
shall be a senior official
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new sentence:
Each individual so designated shall be a senior civilian employee of the military department concerned in pay grade GS–15 or higher.
.
(b)
Qualifications
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection (b):
(b)
Qualifications
Any individual designated as a corrosion control and prevention executive of a military department pursuant to subsection (a) shall—
(1)
have a working knowledge of corrosion prevention and control;
(2)
have strong program management and communication skills; and
(3)
understand the acquisition, research, development, test, and evaluation, and sustainment policies and procedures of the military department, including for the sustainment of infrastructure.
.
X
General Provisions
A
Financial Matters
1001.
General
transfer authority
(a)
Authority To
transfer authorizations
(1)
Authority
Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in this division for fiscal year 2018 between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
(2)
Limitation
Except as provided in paragraph (3), the total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this section may not exceed $4,000,000,000.
(3)
Exception for
transfers between military personnel authorizations
A transfer of funds between military personnel authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
(b)
Limitations
The authority provided by subsection (a) to transfer authorizations—
(1)
may only be used to provide authority for items that have a higher priority than the items from which authority is transferred; and
(2)
may not be used to provide authority for an item that has been denied authorization by Congress.
(c)
Effect on
authorization amounts
A transfer made from one account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
(d)
Notice to
Congress
The Secretary shall promptly notify Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).
1002.
Calculations for payments into Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund using single level
percentage
of basic pay determined on Armed Force-wide rather than Armed Forces-wide
basis
Section 1465 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(1), in the flush matter at the end of paragraph (1), by striking
Such single level
and inserting
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d), such single level
;
(2)
by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively; and
(3)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
(1)
Notwithstanding subsection (c), in any actuarial valuation of Department of Defense military retirement and survivor benefits programs for purposes of a fiscal year beginning after fiscal year 2018—
(A)
the determination made pursuant to subsection (c)(1)(A) shall be a single level percentage of basic pay for active duty for each armed force (other than the Coast Guard) and for each of the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard for full-time National Guard duty (rather than the single level percentage of basic pay otherwise required by that subsection); and
(B)
the determination made pursuant to subsection (c)(1)(B) shall be a single level percentage of basic pay and of compensation for members of the Selected Reserve of each armed force (other than the Coast Guard) (rather than the single level percentage of basic pay and of compensation otherwise required by that subsection).
(2)
In making calculations for purposes of subsection (b)(1) for fiscal years after fiscal year 2018—
(A)
the Secretary of Defense—
(i)
shall not use the single level percentage of basic pay determined under subsection (c)(1)(A) as provided for in subsection (b)(1)(A)(i); but
(ii)
shall use for purposes of subsection (b)(1)(A)(i) each separate single level percentage of basic pay determined under paragraph (1)(A) for each armed force and for each of the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard; and
(B)
the Secretary of Defense—
(i)
shall not use the single level percentage of basic pay and of compensation determined under subsection (c)(1)(B) as provided for in subsection (b)(1)(B)(i); but
(ii)
shall use for purposes of subsection (b)(1)(B)(i) each separate single level percentage of basic pay and of compensation determined under paragraph (1)(B) for each armed force.
(3)
In making calculations for purposes of section 1466(a) of this title for purposes of deposits into the Fund for months in fiscal years after fiscal year 2018—
(A)
the Secretary of Defense—
(i)
shall not use the single level percentage of basic pay determined under subsection (c)(1)(A) as provided for in section 1466(a)(1)(A) of this title; but
(ii)
shall use for purposes of section 1466(a)(1)(A) of this title each separate single level percentage of basic pay determined under paragraph (1)(A) for each armed force and for each of the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard; and
(B)
the Secretary of Defense—
(i)
shall not use the single level percentage of basic pay and of compensation determined under subsection (c)(1)(B) as provided for in section 1466(a)(2)(A) of this title; but
(ii)
shall use for purposes of section 1466(a)(2)(A) each separate single level percentage of basic pay and of compensation determined under paragraph (1)(B) for each armed force.
.
1003.
Certifications on audit readiness of the Department of Defense and the military departments,
Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the Department
of Defense
(a)
Department of Defense
Not later than September 30, 2017, and each year thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall certify to the congressional defense committees whether or not the full financial statements of the Department of Defense are audit ready as of the date of such certification.
(b)
Military departments, Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements
(1)
In general
Not later than September 30, 2017, and each year thereafter, each Secretary of a military department, each head of a Defense Agency, and each head of any other organization or element of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of this subsection shall certify to the congressional defense committees whether or not the full financial statements of the military department, the Defense Agency, or the organization or element concerned became audit ready during the fiscal year in which such certification is to be submitted.
(2)
Transmittal through Secretary of Defense
The individual certifications required by this subsection shall be transmitted to the congressional defense committees collectively by the Secretary under procedures established by the Secretary for purposes of this subsection.
(c)
Termination on receipt of audit opinion on full financial statements
A certification is no longer required under subsection (a) or (b) with respect to the Department of Defense, or a military department, Defense Agency, or organization or element of the Department, as applicable, after the Department of Defense or such military department, Defense Agency, or organization or element receives an audit opinion on its full financial statements.
(d)
Audit ready defined
In this section, the term
audit ready
, with respect to the full financial statements of the Department of Defense, a military department, a Defense Agency, or another organization or element of the Department of Defense, means that the Department of Defense, the military department, the Defense Agency, or the organization or element has in place critical audit capabilities and associated infrastructure to successfully start and support a financial audit of its full financial statements.
1004.
Failure to obtain audit opinion on fiscal year full financial statements of the Department of
Defense
(a)
Reduction in basic pay of military Secretaries for failure to obtain audit opinion on full
financial statements for fiscal years 2018 and thereafter
If the Department of Defense does not obtain an audit opinion on its full financial statements for fiscal year 2018, or any fiscal year thereafter, by March 31 of the succeeding calendar year, the annual rate of basic pay payable for each Secretary of a military department for the calendar year next following such succeeding calendar year shall be the annual rate of basic pay for positions at level III of the Executive Schedule pursuant to section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, rather than the annual rate of basic pay otherwise provided for the positions of Secretary of a military department by law.
(b)
Review and recommendations on efforts To obtain audit opinion on full financial statements for
fiscal year 2018 by March 31, 2019
(1)
In general
If the Department does not obtain an audit opinion on its full financial statements for fiscal year 2018 by March 31, 2019, the Secretary of Defense shall establish within the Department a team of distinguished, private sector experts with experience conducting financial audits of large public or private sector organizations to review and make recommendations to improve the efforts of the Department to obtain an audit opinion on its full financial statements.
(2)
Scope of activities
The team established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
identify impediments to the progress of the Department in obtaining an audit opinion on its full financial statements, including an identification of the organizations or elements that are lagging in their efforts toward obtaining such audit opinion;
(B)
estimate when an audit opinion on the full financial statements of the Department will be obtained; and
(C)
consider mechanisms and incentives to support efficient achievement by the Department of its audit goals, including organizational mechanisms to transfer direction and management control of audit activities from subordinate organizations to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, individual personnel incentives, workforce improvements (including in senior leadership positions), business process, technology, and systems improvements (including the use of data analytics), and metrics by which the Secretary and Congress may measure and assess progress toward achievement of the audit goals of the Department.
(3)
Report
If the Secretary takes action pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, not later than September 30, 2019, submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the team established pursuant to that paragraph, including a description of the actions taken and to be taken by the team pursuant to paragraph (2).
1005.
Improper payment matters
Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall take the following actions:
(1)
With regard to estimating improper payments:
(A)
Establish and implement key quality assurance procedures, such as reconciliations, to ensure the completeness and accuracy of sampled populations.
(B)
Revise the procedures for the sampling methodologies of the Department of Defense so that such procedures—
(i)
comply with Office of Management and Budget guidance and generally accepted statistical standards;
(ii)
produce statistically valid improper payment error rates, statistically valid improper payment dollar estimates, and appropriate confidence intervals for both; and
(iii)
in meeting clauses (i) and (ii), take into account the size and complexity of the transactions being sampled.
(2)
With regard to identifying programs susceptible to significant improper payments, conduct a risk assessment that complies with the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010 (
Public Law 111–204
) and the amendments made by that Act (in this section collectively referred to as
IPERA
).
(3)
With regard to reducing improper payments, establish procedures that produce corrective action plans that—
(A)
comply fully with IPERA and associated Office of Management and Budget guidance, including by holding individuals responsible for implementing corrective actions and monitoring the status of corrective actions; and
(B)
are in accordance with best practices, such as those recommended by the Chief Financial Officers Council, including by providing for—
(i)
measurement of the progress made toward remediating root causes of improper payments; and
(ii)
communication to the Secretary of Defense and the heads of departments, agencies, and organizations and elements of the Department of Defense, and key stakeholders, on the progress made toward remediating the root causes of improper payments.
(4)
With regard to implementing recovery audits for improper payments, develop and implement procedures to—
(A)
identify costs related to the recovery audits and recovery efforts of the Department of Defense; and
(B)
evaluate improper payment recovery efforts in order to ensure that they are cost effective.
(5)
Monitor the implementation of the revised chapter of the Financial Management Regulations on recovery audits in order to ensure that the Department of Defense, the military departments, the Defense Agencies, and the other organizations and elements of the Department of Defense either conduct recovery audits or demonstrate that it is not cost effective to do so.
(6)
Develop and submit to the Office of Management and Budget for approval a payment recapture audit plan that fully complies with Office of Management and Budget guidance.
(7)
With regard to reporting on improper payments, design and implement procedures to ensure that the annual improper payment and recovery audit reporting of the Department of Defense is complete, accurate, and complies with IPERA and associated Office of Management and Budget guidance.
1006.
Financial operations dashboard for the Department of Defense
(a)
Financial operations dashboard
(1)
In general
The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall develop and maintain on an Internet website available to Federal Government agencies a tool (commonly referred to as a
dashboard)
to permit Federal Government officials to track key indicators of the financial performance of the Department of Defense, including outstanding accounts payable, abnormal accounts payable, outstanding advances, unmatched disbursements, abnormal undelivered orders, negative unliquidated obligations, violations of sections 1341 and 1517(a) of title 31, United States Code (commonly referred to as the
Anti-Deficiency Act
), costs deriving from payment delays, interest penalty payments, and improper payments, and actual savings realized through interest payments made, discounts for timely or advanced payments, and other financial management and improvement initiatives.
(2)
Information covered
The tool shall cover financial performance information for the military departments, the defense agencies, and any other organizations or elements of the Department of Defense.
(3)
Tracking of performance over time
The tool shall permit the tracking of financial performance over time, including by month, quarter, and year, and permit users of the tool to export both current and historical data on financial performance.
(4)
Updates
The information covered by the tool shall be updated not less frequently than monthly.
(b)
Annual report on value created by improved financial management
Not later than December 31 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report setting forth, for each military department, defense agency, and other organization or element of the Department of Defense, the following:
(1)
A description of the value, if any, that accrued as a result of improved financial management and related cost-savings initiatives during the most recent fiscal year.
(2)
A description of the manner in which such value, if any, was applied, and will be applied, to provide mission value.
(3)
A target for the savings to be achieved as a result of improved financial management and related cost-savings initiatives during the fiscal year in which such report is submitted.
1007.
Comptroller General of the United States recommendations on audit capabilities and infrastructure
and related matters
(a)
Bi-monthly summary of status of audit corrective action plan
The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall assemble on a bi-monthly basis a management summary of the current status of actions under the consolidated audit corrective action plan (CAP) with respect to the critical audit capabilities and associated infrastructure of the Department of Defense, the military departments, the Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Centralized monitoring and reporting process
The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall develop and implement a centralized monitoring and reporting process that captures and maintains up-to-date information, including the standard data elements recommended in the Implementation Guide for OMB Circular A–123, for all corrective action plans Department of Defense-wide that pertain to critical audit capabilities and associated infrastructure.
B
Counterdrug Activities
1011.
Extension and modification of authority to support a unified counterdrug and counterterrorism
campaign in Colombia
(a)
Extension
Section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (
Public Law 108–375
; 118 Stat. 2042), as most recently amended by section 1013 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2385), is further amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(1), by striking
2019
and inserting
2022
; and
(2)
in subsection (c), by striking
2019
and inserting
2022
.
(b)
Scope of authority
Subsection (a) of such section 1021 is further amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
organizations designated as
and all that follows and inserting
terrorist organizations and other illegally armed groups determined by the Secretary of Defense to pose a significant threat to the national security interests of the United States.
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
authority
and all that follows and inserting “authority as follows:
(A)
To protect human health and welfare in emergency circumstances, including the undertaking of rescue operations.
(B)
To support efforts to demobilize, disarm, and reintegrate members of illegally armed groups.
.
C
Naval Vessels and Shipyards
1016.
Policy of the United States on minimum number of battle force ships
(a)
Policy
It shall be the policy of the United States to have available, as soon as practicable, not fewer than 355 battle force ships, comprised of the optimal mix of platforms, with funding subject to the availability of appropriations or other funds.
(b)
Battle force ships defined
In this section, the term ‘‘battle force ships” has the meaning given the term in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5030.8C.
1017.
Operational readiness of Littoral Combat Ships on extended deployment
(a)
In general
Subsection (a) of section 7310 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
Under jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy
in the subsection heading after
Vessels
;
(2)
by striking
A naval vessel (or any other vessel under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy)
and inserting
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a naval vessel
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
(A)
Subject to subparagraph (B), in the case of a naval vessel classified as a Littoral Combat Ship and operating on deployment, corrective and preventive maintenance or repair (whether intermediate or depot level) and facilities maintenance may be performed on the vessel—
(i)
in a foreign shipyard;
(ii)
at a facility outside of a foreign shipyard; or
(iii)
at any other facility convenient to the vessel.
(B)
(i)
Corrective and preventive maintenance or repair may be performed on a vessel as described in subparagraph (A) if the work is performed by United States Government personnel or United States contractor personnel.
(ii)
Facilities maintenance may be performed by a foreign contractor on a vessel as described in subparagraph (A) only as approved by the Secretary of the Navy.
.
(b)
Definitions
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
corrective and preventive maintenance or repair
means—
(A)
maintenance or repair actions performed as a result of a failure in order to return or restore equipment to acceptable performance levels; and
(B)
scheduled maintenance or repair actions to prevent or discover functional failures.
(2)
The term
facilities maintenance
means preservation or corrosion control efforts and cleaning services.
.
(c)
Clerical amendments
(1)
Section heading
The heading of such section is amended to read as follows:
7310.
Overhaul, repair, and maintenance of vessels in foreign shipyards and facilities: restrictions; exceptions
.
(2)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 633 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 7310 and inserting the following new item:
7310. Overhaul, repair, and maintenance of vessels in foreign shipyards and facilities:
restrictions; exceptions.
.
1018.
Authority to purchase used vessels to recapitalize the Ready Reserve Force and the Military Sealift
Command surge fleet
(a)
Deposit of additional funds in National Defense Sealift Fund
(1)
Other funds made available to Department of the Navy
Subsection (d) of section 2218 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Any other funds made available to the Department of the Navy for carrying out the purposes of the Fund set forth in subsection (c).
.
(2)
Expiration of funds after 5 years
Subsection (g) of such section is amended by striking
subsection (d)(1)
and inserting
paragraph (1) or (4) of subsection (d)
.
(b)
Authority To purchase used vessels
Subsection (f) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
(A)
Notwithstanding the limitations in paragraph (1) and subsection (c)(1)(E), the Secretary of Defense may, as part of a program to recapitalize the Ready Reserve Force component of the National Defense Reserve Fleet and the Military Sealift Command surge fleet, purchase used vessels, regardless of where constructed, from among vessels previously participating in the Maritime Security Fleet, if available at a reasonable cost (as determined by the Secretary). If such previously participating vessels are not available at a reasonable cost, used vessels comparable to such previously participating vessels may be purchased from any source, regardless of where constructed, if available at a reasonable cost (as determined by the Secretary).
(B)
In exercising the authority in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall purchase used vessels constructed in the United States, if available at a reasonable cost (as determined by the Secretary).
(C)
In exercising the authority in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall ensure that any conversion, modernization, maintenance, or repair of vessels occurs in shipyards located in the United States, except in emergency situations (as determined by the Secretary).
.
(c)
Definition of Maritime Security Fleet
Subsection (k) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
The term
Maritime Security Fleet
means the fleet established under section 53102(a) of title 46.
.
(d)
Technical amendment
Subsection (i) of such section is amended by striking
(
50 U.S.C. App. 1744
)
and inserting
(
50 U.S.C. 4405
)
.
1019.
Surveying ships
(a)
Surveying ship requirement
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief of Naval Operations shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth a force structure assessment that establishes a surveying ship requirement. The Chief of Naval Operations shall conduct the assessment for purposes of the report, and may limit the assessment to surveying ships.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
surveying ship
has the meaning given the term in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5030.8C.
(2)
The term
force structure assessment
has the meaning given the term in Chief of Naval Operations Instruction 3050.27.
1020.
Pilot program on funding for national defense sealift vessels
(a)
In general
The Secretary of the Navy may carry out a pilot program to assess the feasability and advisability of the use of the authorities specified in subsection (b) in connection with research and development and operation, maintenance, and lease or charter of national defense sealift vessels.
(b)
Authorities
The authorities specified in this subsection are authorities as follows:
(1)
To derive funds for obligations and expenditures for research and development relating to national defense sealift vessels from the Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, Navy account.
(2)
To derive funds for obligations and expenditures for operation, maintenance, and lease or charter of national defense sealift vessels from the Operation and Maintenance, Navy account.
(3)
To use funds in the account referred to in paragraph (1) for obligations and expenditures described in that paragraph, and to use funds in the account referred to in paragraph (2) for obligations and expenditures described in that paragraph, without the transfer of such funds to the National Defense Sealift Fund.
(c)
Limitation
The authorities in subsection (b) may be used under the pilot program only with respect to applicable amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal years 2018 and 2019.
(d)
Continuing availability of NDSF funds
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of amounts available in the National Defense Sealift Fund for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 for use for the purposes of the Fund under section 2218(c) of title 10, United States Code, in such fiscal years.
(e)
Reports
(1)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the conclusion of the pilot program, the Secretary, the Commander of the United States Transportation Command, and the Administrator of the Maritime Administration each shall submit to the congressional defense committees an independent report on the pilot program.
(2)
Elements
Each report shall include the following:
(A)
A description of lessons learned from the pilot program regarding the efficacy of funding national defense sealift vessel requirements using the accounts specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) rather than the National Defense Sealift Fund.
(B)
An assessment of potential operational, financial, and other significant impacts if the pilot program is made permanent.
(C)
Such recommendations as the official submitting such report considers appropriate regarding modifications of section 2218 of title 10, United States Code, in light of the pilot program.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
national defense sealift vessel
has the meaning given the term in section 2218(k)(3) of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
The term
National Defense Sealift Fund
means the Fund established by section 2218 of title 10, United States Code.
D
Counterterrorism
1031.
Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States
Section 1032 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
.
1032.
Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities in the United States to
house detainees transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba
Section 1033(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
.
1033.
Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release to certain countries of
individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
Section 1034 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
.
1034.
Extension of prohibition on use of funds for realignment of forces at or closure of United States
Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
Section 1035 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2391) is amended by striking
fiscal year 2017
and inserting
any of fiscal years 2017 through 2021
.
1035.
Authority to transfer individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to
the United States temporarily for emergency or critical medical treatment
(a)
Temporary transfer for medical treatment
Notwithstanding section 1032 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), as amended by section 1031 of this Act, or any similar provision of law enacted after September 30, 2015, the Secretary of Defense may, after consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, temporarily transfer an individual detained at Guantanamo to a Department of Defense medical facility in the United States for the sole purpose of providing the individual medical treatment if the Secretary of Defense determines that—
(1)
the medical treatment of the individual is necessary to prevent death or imminent significant injury or harm to the health of the individual;
(2)
the necessary medical treatment is not available to be provided at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, without incurring excessive and unreasonable costs; and
(3)
the Department of Defense has provided for appropriate security measures for the custody and control of the individual during any period in which the individual is temporarily in the United States under this section.
(b)
Limitation on exercise of authority
The authority of the Secretary of Defense under subsection (a) may be exercised only by the Secretary of Defense or another official of the Department of Defense at the level of Under Secretary of Defense or higher.
(c)
Conditions of transfer
An individual who is temporarily transferred under the authority in subsection (a) shall—
(1)
while in the United States, remain in the custody and control of the Secretary of Defense at all times; and
(2)
be returned to United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as soon as feasible after a Department of Defense physician determines, in consultation with the Commander, Joint Task Force-Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that any necessary follow-up medical care may reasonably be provided the individual at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay.
(d)
Status while in United States
An individual who is temporarily transferred under the authority in subsection (a), while in the United States—
(1)
shall be deemed at all times and in all respects to be in the uninterrupted custody of the Secretary of Defense, as though the individual remained physically at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba;
(2)
shall not at any time be subject to, and may not apply for or obtain, or be deemed to enjoy, any right, privilege, status, benefit, or eligibility for any benefit under any provision of the immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17)
), or any other law or regulation;
(3)
shall not be permitted to avail himself of any right, privilege, or benefit of any law of the United States beyond those available to individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay; and
(4)
shall not, as a result of such transfer, have a change in any designation that may have attached to that detainee while detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force (
Public Law 107–40
), as determined in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
(e)
No cause of action
Any decision to transfer or not to transfer an individual made under the authority in subsection (a) shall not give rise to any claim or cause of action.
(f)
Limitation on judicial review
(1)
Limitation
Except as provided in paragraph (2), no court, justice, or judge shall have jurisdiction to hear or consider any claim or action against the United States or its departments, agencies, officers, employees, or agents arising from or relating to any aspect of the detention, transfer, treatment, or conditions of confinement of an individual transferred under this section.
(2)
Exception for habeas corpus
The United States District Court for the District of Columbia shall have exclusive jurisdiction to consider an application for writ of habeas corpus seeking release from custody filed by or on behalf of an individual who is in the United States pursuant to a temporary transfer under the authority in subsection (a). Such jurisdiction shall be limited to that required by the Constitution, and relief shall be only as provided in paragraph (3). In such a proceeding the court may not review, halt, or stay the return of the individual who is the object of the application to United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, pursuant to subsection (c).
(3)
Relief
A court order in a proceeding covered by paragraph (2)—
(A)
may not order the release of the individual within the United States; and
(B)
shall be limited to an order of release from custody which, when final, the Secretary of Defense shall implement in accordance with section 1034 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
10 U.S.C. 801
note).
(g)
Notification
Whenever a temporary transfer of an individual detained at Guantanamo is made under the authority of subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall notify the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the transfer not later than five days after the date on which the transfer is made.
(h)
Individual detained at Guantanamo defined
In this section, the term
individual detained at Guantanamo
means an individual located at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as of October 1, 2009, who—
(1)
is not a national of the United States (as defined in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)
) or a member of the Armed Forces of the United States; and
(2)
is—
(A)
in the custody or under the control of the Department of Defense; or
(B)
otherwise detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay.
(i)
Applicability
This section shall apply to an individual temporarily transferred under the authority in subsection (a) regardless of the status of any pending or completed proceeding or detention on the date of the enactment of this Act.
E
Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
1041.
Matters relating to the submittal of future-years defense programs
(a)
Timing of submittal to Congress
Subsection (a) of section 221 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
at or about the same time
and inserting
not later than five days after the date on which
.
(b)
Manner and form of submittal
Such section is further amended—
(1)
in subsection (a) by inserting
make available to United States Government entities and
before
submit to Congress
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall make available to United States Government entities and submit to Congress each future-years defense program under this section as follows:
(A)
By making such program available on an Internet website of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) available to United States Government in the form of an unclassified electronic database.
(B)
By delivering printed copies of such program to the congressional defense committee.
(2)
In the event inclusion of classified material in a future-years defense program would otherwise render the totality of the program classified for purposes of this subsection—
(A)
such program shall be made available to United States Government entities and submitted to Congress in unclassified form, with such material attached as a classified annex; and
(B)
such annex shall be submitted to the congressional defense committees, the Congressional Budget Office, the Comptroller General of the United States, and the Congressional Research Service.
.
(c)
Accuracy of information
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(e)
Each future-years defense program under this subsection shall be accompanied by a certification by the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), in the case of the Department of Defense, and the comptroller of each military department, in the case of such military department, that any information entered into the Standard Data Collection System of the Department of Defense, the Comptroller Information System, or any other data system, as applicable, for purposes of assembling such future-years defense program was accurate.
.
(d)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Heading amendment
The heading of section 221 of such title is amended to read as follows:
221.
Future-years defense program: consistency in budgeting; availability to United States Government entities and submittal to Congress
.
(2)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 9 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 221 and inserting the following new item:
221. Future-years defense program: consistency in budgeting; availability to United States
Government entities and submittal
to Congress.
.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply to future-years defense programs submitted at the time of budgets of the President for fiscal years beginning after fiscal year 2018.
(f)
DoD guidance
The Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), update Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation 7000.14–R, and any other appropriate instructions and guidance, to ensure that the Department of Defense takes appropriate actions to comply with the amendments made by this section in the submittal of future-years defense programs in calendar years after calendar year 2017.
1042.
Department of Defense integration of information operations and cyber-enabled information
operations
(a)
Integration of Department of Defense information operations and cyber-enabled information
operations
(1)
Establishment of cross-functional task force
(A)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a cross-functional task force consistent with section 911(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (114–328;
10 U.S.C. 111
note) to integrate across the organizations of the Department of Defense responsible for information operations, military deception, public affairs, electronic warfare, and cyber operations to produce integrated strategy, planning, and budgeting to counter, deter, and conduct strategic information operations and cyber-enabled information operations.
(B)
Duties
The task force shall carry out the following:
(i)
Development of a strategic framework for the conduct by the Department of Defense of information operations, including cyber-enabled information operations, coordinated across all relevant Department of Defense entities, including both near-term and long-term guidance for the conduct of such coordinated operations.
(ii)
Development and dissemination of a common operating paradigm across the organizations specified in subparagraph (A) of the influence, deception, and propaganda activities of key malign actors, including in cyberspace.
(iii)
Development of guidance for, and promotion of, the liaison capability of the Department to interact with the private sector, including social media, on matters related to the influence activities of malign actors.
(2)
Head of cross-functional task force
(A)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall appoint as the head of the task force such individual as the Secretary considers appropriate from among individuals serving in the Department as an Under Secretary of Defense or in such other position within the Department of lesser order of precedence.
(B)
Responsibilities
The responsibilities of the head of the task force are as follows:
(i)
Oversight of strategic policy and guidance.
(ii)
Overall resource allocation for the integration of information operations and cyber operations of the Department.
(iii)
Ensuring the task force faithfully pursues the purpose set forth in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) and carries out its duties as set forth in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph.
(iv)
Carrying out such activities as are required of the head of the task force under subsections (b) and (c).
(b)
Requirements and plans for information operations
(1)
Combatant command planning
The Secretary shall require each commander of a combatant command to develop such requirements and specific plans as may be necessary for the conduct of information operations, including plans for deterring information operations, particularly in the cyber domain, by malign actors against the United States, allies of the United States, and interests of the United States.
(2)
Implementation plan for Department of Defense strategy for operations in the information
environment
(A)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the head of the task force shall—
(i)
review the Department of Defense Strategy for Operations in the Information Environment, dated June 2016; and
(ii)
submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for implementation of such strategy.
(B)
Elements
The implementation plan shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(i)
An accounting of the efforts undertaken in support of the strategy described in subparagraph (A)(i) since it was issued in June 2016.
(ii)
A description of any updates or changes to such strategy that have been made since it was first issued, as well as any expected updates or changes in light of the establishment of the task force.
(iii)
A description of the role of the Department as part of a broader whole-of-government strategy for strategic communications, including assumptions about the roles and contributions of other Government departments and agencies to such a strategy.
(iv)
Defined actions, performance metrics, and projected timelines to achieve the following specified tasks:
(I)
Train, educate, and prepare commanders and their staffs, and the Joint Force as a whole, to lead, manage, and conduct operations in the information environment.
(II)
Train, educate, and prepare information operations professionals and practitioners to enable effective operations in the information environment.
(III)
Manage information operations professionals, practitioners, and organizations to meet emerging operational needs.
(IV)
Establish a baseline assessment of current ability of the Department to conduct operations in the information environment, including an identification of the types of units and organizations currently responsible for building and employing information-related capabilities and an assignment of appropriate roles and missions for each type of unit or organization.
(V)
Develop the ability of the Department and operating forces to engage, assess, characterize, forecast, and visualize the information environment.
(VI)
Develop and maintain the proper capabilities and capacity to operate effectively in the information environment in coordination with implementation of related cyber and other strategies.
(VII)
Develop and maintain the capability to assess accurately the effect of operations in the information environment.
(VIII)
Adopt, adapt, and develop new science and technology for the Department to operate effectively in the information environment.
(IX)
Develop and adapt information environment-related concepts, policies, and guidance.
(X)
Ensure doctrine relevant to operations in the information environment remains current and responsive based on lessons learned and best practices.
(XI)
Develop, update, and de-conflict authorities and permissions, as appropriate, to enable effective operations in the information environment.
(XII)
Establish and maintain partnerships among Department and interagency partners to enable more effective whole-of-government operations in the information environment.
(XIII)
Establish and maintain appropriate interaction with entities that are not part of the Federal Government, including entities in industry, entities in academia, Federally funded research and development centers, and other organizations, to enable operations in the information environment.
(XIV)
Establish and maintain collaboration between and among the Department and international partners, including partner countries and nongovernmental organizations, to enable more effective operations in the information environment.
(XV)
Foster, enhance, and leverage partnership capabilities and capacities.
(v)
An analysis of any personnel, resourcing, capability, authority, or other gaps that will need to be addressed to ensure effective implementation of the strategy described in subparagraph (A)(i) across all relevant elements of the Department.
(vi)
An investment framework and projected timeline for addressing any gaps identified under clause (v).
(vii)
Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense considers relevant.
(C)
Periodic status reports
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the implementation plan is submitted under subparagraph (A)(ii) and not less frequently than once every 90 days thereafter until the date that is three years after the date of such submittal, the head of the task force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing the status of the efforts of the Department to accomplish the tasks specified under clauses (iv) and (vi) of subparagraph (B).
(c)
Training and education
Consistent with the elements of the implementation plan required under clauses (i) and (ii) of subsection (b)(2)(B)(4), the head of the task force shall establish programs to provide training and education to such members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense as the Secretary considers appropriate to ensure understanding of the role of information in warfare, the central goal of all military operations to affect the perceptions, views, and decision-making of adversaries, and the effective management and conduct of operations in the information environment.
(d)
Establishment of Defense Intelligence Officer for Information Operations and Cyber Operations
The Secretary shall establish a position within the Department of Defense known as the
Defense Intelligence Officer for Information Operations and Cyber Operations
.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
head of the task force
means the head appointed under subsection (a)(2)(A).
(2)
The term
implementation plan
means the plan required by subsection (b)(2)(A)(ii).
(3)
The term
task force
means the cross-functional task force established under subsection (a)(1)(A).
1043.
Prohibition on lobbying activities with respect to the Department of Defense by certain officers of
the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department within two years
of separation from military service or employment with the Department
(a)
Prohibition
An individual described in subsection (b) may not engage in lobbying activities with respect to the Department of Defense during the two-year period beginning on the date of retirement or separation from service in the Armed Forces or the date of retirement or separation from service with the Department, as applicable.
(b)
Covered individuals
An individual described in this section is the following:
(1)
An officer of the Armed Forces in grade O–7 or higher at the time of retirement or separation from the Armed Forces.
(2)
A civilian employee of the Department of Defense at the Senior Executive Service (SES) level or higher at the time of retirement or separation from service with the Department.
(c)
Lobbying activities with respect to the Department of Defense defined
In this section:
(1)
The term
lobbying activities with respect to the Department of Defense
means the following:
(A)
Lobbying contacts and other lobbying activities with covered executive branch officials and covered legislative branch officials with respect to the Department of Defense.
(B)
Lobbying contacts with covered executive branch officials described in subparagraphs (C) through (F) of section 3(3) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (
2 U.S.C. 1602(3)
) in the Department of Defense.
(2)
The term
lobbying activities
has the meaning given that term in section 3(7) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (
2 U.S.C. 1602(7)
).
(3)
The term
covered executive branch official
has the meaning given that term in section 3(3) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (
2 U.S.C. 1602(3)
).
(4)
The term
covered legislative branch official
has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (
2 U.S.C. 1602(4)
).
1044.
Definition of
unmanned aerial vehicle
for purposes of title 10, United States Code
Section 101(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
Unmanned aerial vehicle
The term
unmanned aerial vehicle
—
(A)
means an aerial vehicle that is not controlled by a human being after launch, such as a cruise missile; and
(B)
does not include a remotely piloted aerial vehicle if the vehicle is controlled by a human being after launch.
.
1045.
Technical amendment relating to management of military technicians
Section 1053(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
10 U.S.C. 10216
note) is amended by striking
20 percent
and inserting
12.6 percent
.
1046.
Extension of prohibition on use of funds for retirement of legacy maritime mine countermeasure
platforms
Section 1045(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking
authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for the Navy
and inserting
authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for the Navy for fiscal year 2017 or 2018
.
1047.
Sense of Congress on the basing of KC–46A aircraft outside the continental United States
(a)
Finding
Congress finds that the Department of Defense is continuing its process of permanently stationing KC–46A aircraft at installations in the continental United States (CONUS) and forward-basing outside the continental United States (OCONUS).
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force, as part of the strategic basing process for KC–46A aircraft, should continue to place emphasis on and consider the benefits derived from locations outside the continental United States that—
(1)
support day-to-day air refueling operations, operations plans of the combatant commands, and flexibility for contingency operations, and have—
(A)
a strategic location that is essential to the defense of the United States and its interests;
(B)
receivers for boom or probe-and-drogue training opportunities with joint and international partners; and
(C)
sufficient airfield and airspace availability and capacity to meet requirements; and
(2)
possess facilities that—
(A)
take full advantage of existing infrastructure to provide—
(i)
runway, hangars, and aircrew and maintenance operations; and
(ii)
sufficient fuels receipt, storage, and distribution capacities for a 5-day peacetime operating stock; and
(B)
minimize overall construction and operational costs.
1048.
Authorization to procure up to six polar-class icebreakers
(a)
Authority To procure icebreakers
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may, in consultation with the Secretary of the Navy, enter into a contract or contracts for the procurement of up to six polar-class icebreakers, including—
(A)
polar-class heavy icebreakers; and
(B)
polar-class medium icebreakers.
(2)
Condition for out-year contract payments
A contract entered into under paragraph (1) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject to the availability of appropriations or funds for that purpose for such later fiscal year.
(b)
Comptroller General of the United States report
(1)
In general
Not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of the this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report assessing the cost and procurement schedule for new United States icebreakers.
(2)
Elements
The report required in paragraph (1) shall include an analysis of the following:
(A)
The current status of the efforts of the Coast Guard to acquire new icebreaking capability, including coordination through the Integrated Program Office.
(B)
Actions being taken by the Coast Guard to incorporate key practices from other nations that procure icebreakers to increase knowledge and reduce costs and risks.
(C)
The extent by which the cost and schedule for building Coast Guard icebreakers differs from those in other countries, if known.
(D)
The extent that innovative acquisition practices (such as multiyear funding and block buys) may be applied to icebreaker acquisition to reduce the cost and accelerate the schedule.
(E)
A capacity replacement plan to mitigate a potential icebreaker capability gap if the Polar Star cannot remain in service.
(F)
Any other matters the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
F
Studies and Reports
1061.
Assessment of global force posture
(a)
Assessment required
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the commanders of the combatant commands, provide for and oversee an assessment of the global force posture of the Armed Forces.
(b)
Report
Not later than the earlier of 180 days after the production of the 2018 National Defense Strategy (which is intended to be closely coordinated with and complementary to a new National Security Strategy) or December 31, 2018, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the assessment required by subsection (a). The report shall include the following:
(1)
Recommendations for force size, structure, and basing in Europe, the Middle East, and Asia Pacific that reflect and complement the force sizing construct included in the 2018 National Defense Strategy in order to guide the growth of the force structure of the Armed Forces, which recommendations shall be based on an evaluation of the relative costs of rotational and forward-based forces as well as impacts to deployment timelines of threats to lines of communication and anti-access area denial capabilities of potential adversaries.
(2)
An assessment by each commander of a geographic combatant command of the capability and force structure gaps within the context of an evaluation of the potential threats in the theater of operations of the combatant command concerned and the operation plans that such combatant command are expected to execute.
(3)
An evaluation of the concept of operations and the sources of manpower for headquarters required to oversee and direct execution of current operations plans.
1062.
Army modernization strategy
(a)
Strategy required
The Secretary of the Army shall develop a modernization strategy for the total Army.
(b)
Elements
The strategy required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A comprehensive description of the future total Army, including key objectives, war fighting challenges, and risks, sufficient to establish requirements, set priorities, identify opportunity costs, and establish acquisition time lines for the total Army over a period beyond the period of the current future-years defense program under section 221 of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Mechanisms for identifying programs of the Army that may be unnecessary, or do not perform according to expectations, in achieving the future total Army.
(3)
A comprehensive description of the manner in which the future total Army intends to fight and win as part of a joint force engaged in combat across all operational domains.
(4)
A comprehensive description of the mechanisms required by the future total Army to maintain command, control, and communications and sustainment.
(c)
Particular considerations
In developing the strategy required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall take into particular account the following:
(1)
Current trends and developments in weapons and equipment technologies.
(2)
New tactics and force design of peer adversaries, including the rapid pace of development of such tactics and force design by such adversaries.
(d)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees the strategy required by subsection (a).
(2)
Form
If the report is submitted in classified form, the report shall be accompanied by an unclassified summary.
1063.
Report on Army plan to improve operational unit readiness by reducing number of non-deployable
soldiers assigned to operational units
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the plans of the Army to improve operational unit readiness in the Army by reducing the number of non-deployable soldiers assigned to operational units of the Army and replacing such soldiers with soldiers capable of world-wide deployment.
1064.
Efforts to combat physiological episodes on certain Navy aircraft
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter until January 1, 2020, the Secretary of the Navy shall provide to the congressional defense committees information on efforts by the Navy’s Physiological Episode Team to combat the prevalence of physiological episodes in F/A–18 Hornet and Super Hornet, EA–18G Growler, and T–45 Goshawk aircraft.
(b)
Elements
The information required under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
(1)
A description of Naval Aviation Enterprise activities addressing physiological episodes during the reporting period.
(2)
An estimate of funding expended in support of the activities described under paragraph (1).
(3)
A description of any planned or executed changes to Physiological Episode Team structure or processes.
(4)
A description of activities planned for the upcoming two quarters.
(c)
Form
The information required under subsection (a) may be provided in a written report or a briefing.
1065.
Studies on aircraft inventories for the Air Force
(a)
Independent studies
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the performance of three independent studies of alternative aircraft inventories through 2030, and an associated force-sizing construct, for the Air Force.
(2)
Submittal to Congress
Not later than March 1, 2019, the Secretary shall submit the results of each study to the congressional defense committees.
(3)
Form
The result of each study shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(b)
Entities To perform studies
The Secretary shall provide for the studies under subsection (a) to be performed as follows:
(1)
One study shall be performed by the Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Net Assessment.
(2)
One study shall be performed by a federally funded research and development center.
(3)
One study shall be conducted by an independent, nongovernmental institute which is described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code, and has recognized credentials and expertise in national security and military affairs.
(c)
Performance of studies
(1)
Independent performance
The Secretary shall require the studies under this section to be conducted independently of one another.
(2)
Matters to be considered
In performing a study under this section, the organization performing the study, while being aware of current and projected aircraft inventories for the Air Force, shall not be limited by such current or projected aircraft inventories, and shall consider the following matters:
(A)
The national security and national defense strategies of the United States.
(B)
Potential future threats to the United States and to United States air and space forces through 2030.
(C)
Traditional roles and missions of the Air Force.
(D)
Alternative roles and missions for the Air Force.
(E)
The force-sizing methodology and rationale used to calculated aircraft inventory levels.
(F)
Other government and nongovernment analyses that would contribute to the study through variations in study assumptions or potential scenarios.
(G)
The role of evolving technology on future air forces, including unmanned and space systems.
(H)
Opportunities for reduced operation and sustainment costs.
(I)
Current and projected capabilities of other Armed Forces that could affect force structure capability and capacity requirements of the Air Force.
(d)
Study results
The results of each study under this section shall—
(1)
identify a force-sizing construct for the Air Force that connects national security strategy to aircraft inventories;
(2)
present the alternative aircraft inventories considered, with assumptions and possible scenarios identified for each;
(3)
provide for presentation of minority views of study participants; and
(4)
for the recommended inventories, provide—
(A)
the numbers and types of aircraft, the numbers and types of manned and unmanned aircraft, and the basic capabilities of each of such platforms;
(B)
describe the force-sizing rationale used to arrive at the recommended inventory levels;
(C)
other information needed to understand the aircraft inventories in basic form and the supporting analysis; and
(D)
options to address aircraft types whose retirement commences before 2030.
1066.
Plan and recommendations for interagency vetting of foreign investments with potential impacts on national defense and national security
(a)
Plan and recommendations required
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Treasury, assess and develop a plan, and recommendations for agencies of the United States Government other than the Department of Defense, to improve the effectiveness of interagency vetting of foreign investments that could potentially impair both the national security of the United States and the ability of the Department to defend the nation, specifically investments from nations that pose threats to the national security interests of the United States.
(b)
Objectives
The assessment, plan, and recommendations required by subsection (a) shall have the following objectives:
(1)
To increase collaboration and coordination among the Department of Defense and other agencies of the United States Government, including the Director of National Intelligence, in the identification and prevention of foreign investments that could potentially impair the national security of the United States and the ability of the Department to defend the nation.
(2)
To increase collaboration and cooperation among the United States Government and governments of United States allies and partners on investments described in paragraph (1), including through information sharing.
(3)
To restrict investments described in paragraph (1) by countries of special concern in critical technologies and emerging technologies that are foundational for maintaining the United States technological advantage.
(c)
Analysis of issues
The plan and recommendations required by subsection (a) shall be based upon the results of an analysis of issues as follows:
(1)
Whether the current interagency vetting processes and policies place adequate focus on the country of origin of each transaction, particularly when it is a country of special concern, and whether certain transactions emanating from those countries should be presumed to pose certain risks to the ability of the Department to defend the nation.
(2)
What are the current or projected major vulnerabilities of the Department pertaining to foreign investment, including in the areas of cybersecurity, reliance on foreign suppliers in the supply chain for defense equipment, limitations on access to certain materials that are essential for national defense, and the use of transportation assets and other critical infrastructure for training, mobilizing, and deploying forces.
(3)
Whether the current interagency vetting process for foreign investments—
(A)
requires additional resources in order to be effective;
(B)
permits the Department adequate time to thoroughly review transactions to conduct national security threat assessments and also determine the impacts of transactions on national defense;
(C)
adequately takes into account risks to the ability of the Department to defend the nation posed by transactions before attempting to mitigate them in various ways; and
(D)
provides adequate monitoring and compliance of agreements to mitigate such risks.
(4)
Whether other agencies of the United States Government, including the Department of the Interior, are aware of the counterintelligence risks posed to facilities of the Department by purchases or leases of nearby Federal land and are cooperative in providing information to permit a proper assessment of those risks.
(5)
Whether and to what extent industrial espionage is occurring against private United States companies to obtain commercial secrets related to critical or foundational technologies.
(6)
Whether and to what extent future foreign investments have the potential for any of the following:
(A)
To increase the cost to the Department of acquiring or maintaining necessary defense-related equipment and systems.
(B)
To reduce the United States technological and industrial advantage relative to any country of special concern.
(C)
To give any country of special concern a heightened ability to conduct information warfare against the United States, including through the spread false or misleading information to the American public and the manipulation of American public opinion on critical public policy issues.
(7)
Whether currently mandated annual reports to Congress on the interagency vetting of foreign investments provide valuable information.
(d)
Elements
The elements of the assessment, plan, and recommendations required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A list of countries of special concern for investments that could potentially impair the ability of the Department to defend the nation.
(2)
A description of recent trends in foreign investment transactions by countries of special concern, including joint ventures, the sale of assets pursuant to bankruptcy, and the purchase or lease of real estate in proximity to military installations.
(3)
A description of any strategies used by countries of special concern to exploit vulnerabilities in existing foreign investment vetting processes and regulations.
(4)
An assessment of any market distortion or unfair competition by any country of special concern that directly or indirectly impairs the national security or the United States and the ability of the Department to defend the nation.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Interim report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the progress of the Secretary in developing the plan and recommendations required by subsection (a).
(2)
Final report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the committees of Congress referred to in paragraph (1) a report setting forth the plan and recommendations developed pursuant to subsection (a).
(3)
Form
Each report under this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
1067.
Report on authorities for the employment, use, and status of National Guard and Reserve technicians
(a)
In general
Not later than April 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the results of a review, undertaken by the Secretary for purposes of the report, of the following:
(1)
Authority for the employment, use, and status of National Guard technicians under section 709 of title 32, United States Code (commonly referred to as the
National Guard Technicians Act of 1968
).
(2)
Authorities for the employment, use, and status of National Guard and Reserve technicians under sections 10216 through 10218 of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Any other authorities on the employment, use, and status of National Guard and Reserve technicians under law.
(b)
Purposes
The purposes of the review required pursuant to subsection (a) shall be as follows:
(1)
To define the mission and requirements of National Guard and Reserve technicians.
(2)
To identify means to improve the management and administration of the National Guard and Reserve technician workforce.
(3)
To identify means to enhance the capability of the Department of Defense to recruit and retain National Guard and Reserve technicians.
(4)
To assess the current career progression tracks of National Guard and Reserve technicians.
(c)
Consultation
In conducting the review required pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, the Chief of Army Reserve, the Chief of Air Force Reserve, and representatives of National Guard and Reserve technicians (including collective bargaining representatives of such technicians).
(d)
Inclusion of recent authorities in review
The Secretary shall ensure that the review required pursuant to subsection (a) takes into account authorities, and modifications of authorities, for the employment, use, and status of National Guard and Reserve technicians in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
) and the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
).
(e)
Required elements
In meeting the purposes of the review as set forth in subsection (b), the review required pursuant to subsection (a) shall address, in particular, the following:
(1)
The extent to which National Guard and Reserve technicians are assigned military duties inconsistent with, or of a different nature than, their civilian duties, the impact of such assignments on unit readiness, and the effect of such assignments on the career progression of technicians.
(2)
The use by the Department of Defense (especially within the National Guard) of selective retention boards to separate National Guard and Reserve technicians from military service (with the effect of thereby separating them from civilian service) before they accrue a full, unreduced retirement annuity in connection with Federal civilian service, and whether that use is consistent with the authority in section 10216(f) of title 10, United States Code, that technicians be permitted to remain in service past their mandatory separation date until they qualify for an unreduced retirement annuity.
(3)
The feasibility and advisability of extending eligibility for benefits under the TRICARE program to National Guard and Reserve technicians, including the types, if any, of benefits whose extension would be feasible and advisable.
(4)
The impact on recruitment and retention, and the budgetary impact, of permitting National Guard and Reserve technicians who receive an enlistment incentive before becoming a technician to retain such incentive upon becoming a technician.
(f)
Report elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
The results of the review undertaken pursuant to subsection (a), including on the matters set forth in subsections (b) and (e).
(2)
Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the review in order to improve and enhance the employment, use, and status of National Guard and Reserve technicians.
1068.
Conforming repeals and technical amendments in connection with reports of the Department of Defense
whose submittal to Congress has previously been terminated by law
(a)
Title 10, United States Code
Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
(1)
Section 113(c) is amended—
(A)
by striking paragraph (2);
(B)
by striking
(1)
; and
(C)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively.
(2)
Section 113 is further amended by striking subsection (l).
(3)
(A)
Section 115a is repealed.
(B)
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 2 is amended by striking the item relating to section 115a.
(4)
Section 386(c)(1) is amended by striking
331,
.
(5)
(A)
Section 235 is repealed.
(B)
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 9 is amended by striking the item relating to section 235.
(6)
Section 428 is amended by striking subsection (f).
(7)
Section 974(d) is amended by striking paragraph (3).
(8)
Section 1073b is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (a); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (a) and (b), respectively.
(9)
Section 1597 is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (c);
(B)
by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) as subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively; and
(C)
in subsection (c), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking
or a master plan prepared under subsection (c)
.
(10)
Section 1705 is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (f); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections (f) and (g), respectively.
(11)
Section 1722b is amended by striking subsection (c).
(12)
Section 1781b is amended by striking subsection (d).
(13)
Section 2193b is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (g); and
(B)
by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (g).
(14)
Section 2262 is amended by striking subsection (d).
(15)
Section 2263 is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (b); and
(B)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
(16)
(A)
Section 2277 is repealed.
(B)
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 135 is amended by striking the item relating to section 2277.
(17)
Section 2306b(l) is amended—
(A)
by striking paragraphs (4) and (5); and
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (9) as paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), and (7), respectively.
(18)
(A)
Section 2313a is repealed.
(B)
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 137 is amended by striking the item relating to section 2313a.
(19)
Section 2330a is amended by striking subsection (c).
(20)
Section 2350j is amended by striking subsection (f).
(21)
Section 2410i(c) is amended by striking the second sentence.
(22)
Section 2475 is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (a); and
(B)
by striking
(b)
Notification of decision To execute plan
.—
.
(23)
Section 2506 is amended—
(A)
by striking
(a)
Departmental guidance
.—
; and
(B)
by striking subsection (b).
(24)
Section 2537 is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (b); and
(B)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
(25)
Section 2564 is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (e); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsection (e) and (f), respectively.
(26)
Section 2831 is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (e);
(B)
by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e); and
(C)
in subsection (e), as so redesignated—
(i)
by striking
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary
and inserting
The Secretary
;
(ii)
by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and
(iii)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
(27)
Section 2859 is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (c); and
(B)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
(28)
Section 2861 is amended by striking subsection (d).
(29)
Section 2866(b) is amended by striking paragraph (3).
(30)
Section 2912 is amended by striking subsection (d).
(31)
(A)
Section 4316 is repealed.
(B)
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 401 is amended by striking the item relating to section 4316.
(32)
Section 5144(d) is amended—
(A)
by striking
(1)
before
The Commander
; and
(B)
by striking paragraph (2).
(33)
Section 10504 is amended—
(A)
by striking
(a)
Annual report
.—
; and
(B)
by striking subsection (b).
(b)
Title 32, United States Code
Section 509 of title 32, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking subsection (k); and
(2)
by redesignating subsections (l) and (m) as subsections (k) and (l), respectively.
(c)
Title 5, United States Code
Section 9902(f)(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
(A)
after
(2)
; and
(2)
by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C).
(d)
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985
Section 1003 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985 (
Public Law 98–525
;
22 U.S.C. 1928
note) is amended by striking subsections (c) and (d).
(e)
National Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989
Subsection (b) of section 1009 of the National Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989 (
Public Law 100–456
;
22 U.S.C. 1928
note) is repealed.
(f)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991
Section 211 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (
Public Law 101–189
; 103 Stat. 1394) is amended by striking subsection (e).
(g)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991
Section 1518 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (
Public Law 101–510
;
24 U.S.C. 418
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(1), by striking
Congress and
in the second sentence; and
(2)
in subsection (e)—
(A)
by striking paragraph (2);
(B)
by striking
(1)
before
Not later than
; and
(C)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
(h)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994
Section 1603 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (
Public Law 103–160
;
22 U.S.C. 2751
note) is amended by striking subsection (d).
(i)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995
Section 533 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (
Public Law 103–337
;
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is repealed.
(j)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000
Section 366 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (
Public Law 106–65
;
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is amended by striking subsection (f).
(k)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002
The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (
Public Law 107–107
) is amended as follows:
(1)
Section 346 (115 Stat. 1062) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsections (b) and (c); and
(B)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (b).
(2)
Section 1008(d) (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking
(1)
before
On each
; and
(B)
by striking paragraph (2).
(l)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003
Section 817 of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (
Public Law 107–314
;
10 U.S.C. 2306a
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking subsection (d); and
(2)
by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
(m)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004
Section 1022 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (
Public Law 108–136
;
10 U.S.C. 271
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking subsection (c); and
(2)
by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively.
(n)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006
The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (
Public Law 109–163
) is amended as follows:
(1)
Section 123 (119 Stat. 3157) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (d); and
(B)
by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
(2)
Section 218(c) (119 Stat. 3171) is amended by striking paragraph (3).
(3)
Section 1224 (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is repealed.
(o)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007
Section 357 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
;
22 U.S.C. 4865
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
(a)
Reconciliation required
.—
; and
(2)
by striking subsection (b).
(p)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008
The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–181
) is amended as follows:
(1)
Section 328 (
10 U.S.C. 4544
note) is amended by striking subsection (b).
(2)
Section 330 (122 Stat. 68) is amended by striking subsection (e).
(3)
Section 845 (
5 U.S.C. App. 5
note) is repealed.
(q)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009
The Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
) is amended as follows:
(1)
Section 943 (122 Stat. 4578) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (e); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) as subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively.
(2)
Section 1014 (122 Stat. 4586) is amended by striking subsection (c).
(3)
Section 1048 (122 Stat. 4603) is repealed.
(r)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010
Section 121 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2211) is amended—
(1)
by striking subsection (e); and
(2)
by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
(s)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011
The Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
Public Law 111–383
) is amended as follows:
(1)
Section 112(b) (124 Stat. 4153) is amended—
(A)
by striking paragraph (3); and
(B)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
(2)
Section 243 (
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (c); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively.
(3)
Section 866(d) (
10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking
(d)
Reports
.—
and all that follows through
(2)
Program assessment
.—If the Secretary
and inserting the following:
(d)
Program assessment
If the Secretary
; and
(B)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively, and indenting the left margin of such paragraphs, as so redesignated, two ems from the left margin.
(4)
Section 1054 (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is repealed.
(t)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012
The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
) is amended as follows:
(1)
Subsection (b) of section 1102 (
5 U.S.C. 9902
note) is repealed.
(2)
Section 1207 (
22 U.S.C. 2151
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (n); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (o) and (p) as subsections (n) and (o), respectively.
(3)
Section 2828 (
10 U.S.C. 7291
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking
(a)
Metering required
.—
; and
(B)
by striking subsection (b).
(4)
Section 2867 (
10 U.S.C. 2223a
note) is amended by striking subsection (d).
(u)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013
The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
) is amended as follows:
(1)
Section 126 (126 Stat. 1657) is amended—
(A)
by striking
(a)
Designation required
.—
; and
(B)
by striking subsection (b).
(2)
Section 144 (126 Stat. 1663) is amended by striking subsection (c).
(3)
Section 716 (
10 U.S.C. 1074g
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (e); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively.
(4)
Section 738(e) (
10 U.S.C. 1071
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking
Reports required
.—
and all that follows through
Not later than
and inserting
Report
.—Not later than
; and
(B)
by striking paragraph (2).
(5)
Section 865 (126 Stat. 1861) is repealed.
(6)
Section 917 (126 Stat. 1878) is repealed.
(7)
Subsection (c) of section 921 (126 Stat. 1878) is repealed.
(8)
Subsection (c) of section 1079 (
10 U.S.C. 221
note) is repealed.
(9)
Section 1211(d) (126 Stat. 1983) is amended—
(A)
by striking paragraph (3); and
(B)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
(10)
Section 1273 (
22 U.S.C. 2421f
) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (d); and
(B)
by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
(11)
Section 1276 (
10 U.S.C. 2350c
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (e); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively.
(v)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014
The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (
Public Law 113–66
) is amended as follows:
(1)
Section 907(c)(3) (
10 U.S.C. 1564
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking
Metrics
.—
and all that follows through
In developing the strategy
and inserting
Metrics
.—In developing the strategy
; and
(B)
by striking subparagraph (B).
(2)
Section 923 (10 U.S.C. prec. 421 note) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (b); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as subsections (b), (c), and (d), respectively.
(3)
Section 1249 (127 Stat. 925) is repealed.
(4)
Section 1611 (127 Stat. 947) is amended by striking subsection (d).
(5)
Section 2916 (127 Stat. 1028) is amended—
(A)
by striking
(a)
Program of decontamination required
.—
; and
(B)
by striking subsection (b).
(w)
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015
The Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
) is amended as follows:
(1)
Section 232 (
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (e); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively.
(2)
Section 914(d) (
5 U.S.C. 5911
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and
(B)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (2).
(3)
Section 1052(b) (128 Stat. 3497) is amended—
(A)
by striking paragraph (2);
(B)
by striking
Reports required
.—
and all that follows through
Not later than
and inserting
Report
.—Not later than
; and
(C)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) and indenting the left margin of such paragraphs, as so redesignated, two ems from the left margin.
(4)
Section 1207 (
10 U.S.C. 2342
note) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (d); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (d) and (e), respectively.
(5)
Section 1209 (128 Stat. 3542) is amended by striking subsection (d).
(6)
Section 1236 (128 Stat. 3559) is amended by striking subsection (d).
(7)
Section 1325 (
50 U.S.C. 3715
) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (e); and
(B)
by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively.
(8)
Section 1341 (
50 U.S.C. 3741
) is repealed.
(9)
Section 1342 (
50 U.S.C. 3742
) is repealed.
(10)
Section 1532(b) (128 Stat. 3613) is amended by striking paragraph (5).
(11)
Section 1534 (128 Stat. 3616) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (g); and
(B)
by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (g).
(12)
Section 1607 (128 Stat. 3625) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (b);
(B)
by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (b) and (c), respectively; and
(C)
in subsection (c), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking
requirements under subsections (a) and (b)
and inserting
requirement in subsection (a)
.
(x)
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004
Section 3002(c) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
50 U.S.C. 3343(c)
) is amended by striking paragraph (4).
1069.
Annual reports on approval of employment or compensation of retired general or flag officers by
foreign governments for Emoluments Clause purposes
(a)
Annual reports
Section 908 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Annual reports on approvals for retired general and flag officers
(1)
Not later than January 31 each year, the Secretaries of the military departments shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees and Members of Congress a report on each approval under subsection (b) for employment or compensation described in subsection (a) for a retired member of the armed forces in a general or flag officer grade that was issued during the preceding year.
(2)
In this subsection, the appropriate committees and Members of Congress are—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives;
(C)
the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader of the Senate; and
(D)
the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.
.
(b)
Scope of first report
The first report submitted pursuant to subsection (d) of section 908 of title 37, United States Code (as added by subsection (a) of this section), after the date of the enactment of this Act shall cover the five-year period ending with the year before the year in which such report is submitted.
1070.
Annual report on civilian casualties in connection with United States military operations
(a)
Annual report required
Not later than May 1 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on civilian casualties caused as a result of United States military operations during the preceding year.
(b)
Elements
Each report under subsection (a) shall set forth the following:
(1)
A list of all the United States military operations during the year covered by such report that were confirmed to have resulted in civilian casualties.
(2)
For each military operation listed pursuant to paragraph (1), the following:
(A)
The date.
(B)
The location.
(C)
The type of operation.
(D)
The confirmed number of civilian casualties.
(c)
Form
Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Sunset
The requirement to submit a report under subsection (a) shall expire on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
1071.
Report on large-scale, joint exercises involving the air and land domains
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
General Milley has stated that the Army would experience
High Military Risk
against emerging threats or great power conflict.
(2)
General Goldfein has stated that
for 15 consecutive years, the Army's been decisively committed to Iraq and Afghanistan and other counter terrorist, counter insurgency type operations. In order to do that, [the Air Force] essentially came off of a core warfare fighting skills of combined arms maneuver against a near peer or a higher end threat
.
(3)
The United States has grown accustomed to technological supremacy and weapons overmatch to deter and defeat potential adversaries.
(4)
The Department of Defense conducts several large-scale, joint exercises that stress interoperability in contested air and sea domains, including the VALIANT SHIELD, NORTHERN EDGE, and RIMPAC exercises, yet few large-scale, joint Army and Air Force exercises exist to stress interoperability in contested air and land domains.
(5)
Large-scale, joint training exercises that stress interoperability across domains are a vital part of establishing and maintaining military readiness for conflicts involving near-peer competitors.
(6)
It is to the benefit of the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to train to contested air and land operations in order to increase joint and coalition readiness, as well as to correct capability gaps in the European theatre of operations that may be discovered during these exercises.
(b)
Report required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the following:
(1)
Existing large-scale, joint exercises involving the air and land domains.
(2)
Plans to expand the scale and scope of the exercises described in paragraph (1).
(3)
Plans to conduct new large-scale, joint exercises in the domains referred to in paragraph (1).
(c)
Potential locations for expanded or new exercises
The report under subsection (b) shall include an analysis of potential locations for the expanded or new exercises covered by the plans described in paragraphs (2) and (3) of that subsection, with priority given to locations that facilitate training by and with—
(1)
sufficient overlapping airspace and ground range capabilities and capacity to meet the training requirements for operating within an anti-access area denial (A2/AD) environment for air and ground operations;
(2)
the ability to host bilateral and multilateral training opportunities with international partners in both the air and land domains;
(3)
limited encroachments that adversely impact training or operations;
(4)
robust use of the electromagnetic spectrum, including global positioning system (GPS), atmospheric, and communications-jamming;
(5)
minimization of adversary intelligence collection capabilities;
(6)
realistic replication of diverse geographic, topographic, and weather environments in which a near-peer combined air and ground campaign might occur;
(7)
existing facilities to support personnel, operations, and logistics associated with the flying missions and ground maneuver missions; and
(8)
minimization of overall construction and operational costs.
1072.
Department of Defense review of Navy capabilities in the Arctic region
(a)
Report on capabilities
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the capabilities of the Navy in the Arctic region.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include an analysis of the following:
(A)
The current naval capabilities of the Department of Defense in the Arctic region, with a particular emphasis on surface capabilities.
(B)
Any gaps that exist between the current naval capabilities described in paragraph (1) and the ability of the Department to fully execute its updated strategy for the Arctic region.
(C)
Any gaps in the capabilities described in paragraph (1) that require ice-hardening of existing vessels or the construction of new vessels to preserve freedom of navigation in the Arctic region whenever and wherever necessary.
(D)
An analysis and recommendation of which Navy vessels could be ice-hardened to effectively preserve freedom of navigation in the Arctic region when and where necessary, in all seasons and weather conditions.
(E)
An analysis of any cost increases or schedule adjustments that may result from ice-hardening existing or new Navy vessels
(b)
Comptroller General of the United States review
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary submits the report required by subsection (a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a review of the report, including any matters in connection with the report and the review that the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
(c)
Form
The report under subsection (a) and the review under subsection (b) shall each be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
1073.
Business case analysis on establishment of active duty association and additional primary aircraft
authorizations for the
168th Air Refueling Wing
(a)
Business case analysis
The Secretary of the Air Force shall conduct a business case analysis on the establishment of an active or classic association with the 168th Air Refueling Wing.
(b)
Elements
The business case analysis conducted under subsection (a) shall address the following:
(1)
Consideration of the addition of two F–35A squadrons at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska, in 2020, and an examination of future shortfalls in air refueling requirements due to such additional aircraft.
(2)
An analysis of potential benefits of adding four primary aircraft authorizations (PAA) for KC–135R tanker aircraft to the 168th Air Refueling Wing.
(3)
Identification of efficiencies and cost savings to be achieved by the 168th Air Refueling Wing after an active or classic association is in place in comparison with temporarily assigned tanker augmentation rotations.
(4)
A detailed comparison of the costs and benefits of an active association for the 168th Air Refueling Wing with a classic association for the Wing.
(5)
An analysis of the effects of the augmented airlift capability arising from additional tanker assets for the 168th Air Refueling Wing in better facilitating rapid deployment of 5th Generation Fighters, necessary support equipment and personnel, and other rapid response forces.
(c)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the business case analysis conducted under subsection (a).
1074.
Report on Navy capacity to increase production of anti-submarine warfare and search and rescue
rotary wing aircraft in light of increase in the size of the surface fleet
to 355 ships
Not later than September 15, 2017, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing and assessing the capacity of the Navy, in light of an increase in the size of the surface fleet of the Navy to 355 ships, to increase production of the following:
(1)
Anti-submarine warfare rotary wing aircraft.
(2)
Search and rescue rotary wing aircraft.
G
Other Matters
1081.
Protection against misuse of Naval Special Warfare Command insignia
(a)
In general
Chapter 663
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
7882.
Protection against misuse of insignia of Naval Special Warfare Command
(a)
Protection against misuse
Subject to subsection (b), no person may use any covered Naval Special Warfare insignia in connection with any promotion, good, service, or other commercial activity when a particular use would be likely to suggest a false affiliation, connection, or association with, endorsement by, or approval of, the United States Government, the Department of Defense, or the Department of the Navy.
(b)
Exception
Subsection (a) shall not apply to the use of a covered Naval Special Warfare insignia for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, analysis, research, or scholarship.
(c)
Treatment of disclaimers
Any determination of whether a person has violated this section shall be made without regard to any use of a disclaimer of affiliation, connection, or association with, endorsement by, or approval of the United States Government, the Department of Defense, the Department of the Navy, or any subordinate organization thereof to the extent consistent with international obligations of the United States.
(d)
Enforcement
Whenever it appears to the Attorney General that any person is engaged in, or is about to engage in, an act or practice that constitutes or will constitute conduct prohibited by this section, the Attorney General may initiate a civil proceeding in a district court of the United States to enjoin such act or practice, and such court may take such injunctive or other action as is warranted to prevent the act, practice, or conduct.
(e)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary of the Navy to register any symbol, name, phrase, term, acronym, or abbreviation otherwise capable of registration under the provisions of the Act of July 5, 1946, popularly known as the Lanham Act or the Trademark Act of 1946 (
15 U.S.C. 1051
et seq.).
(f)
Covered Naval Special Warfare insignia defined
In this section, the term
covered Naval Special Warfare insignia
means any of the following:
(1)
The Naval Special Warfare insignia comprising or consisting of the design of an eagle holding an anchor, trident, and flint-lock pistol.
(2)
The Special Warfare Combatant Craft Crewman insignia comprising or consisting of the design of the bow and superstructure of a Special Operations Craft on a crossed flint-lock pistol and enlisted cutlass, on a background of ocean swells.
(3)
Any colorable imitation of the insignia referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2), in a manner which could reasonably be interpreted or construed as conveying the false impression that an advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product is in any manner approved, endorsed, sponsored, or authorized by, or associated with, the United States Government, the Department of Defense, or the Department of the Navy.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 663 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
7882. Protection against misuse of insignia of Naval Special Warfare Command.
.
1082.
Collaborations between the Armed Forces and certain non-Federal entities on support of Armed Forces
missions abroad
(a)
Finding
The Senate finds that qualified non-Federal entities have contributed to enhance the effectiveness of the mission of the Department of Defense through the provision of private humanitarian, economic, and other non-lethal assistance from United States citizens in response to local needs identified by members of the Armed Forces in areas in which the Armed Forces are deployed abroad.
(b)
Sense of Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that United States military commanders should collaborate with and, consistent with applicable laws and regulations, provide transportation, lodging, and other logistical support to qualified non-Federal entities to advance missions of the Armed Forces abroad.
(c)
Guidance on collaborations
(1)
Review of current guidance
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review of the guidance of the Department of Defense applicable to collaborations between United States military commanders and qualified non-Federal entities for support of missions of the Armed Forces abroad.
(2)
Additional guidance
If the Secretary determines pursuant to the review that additional guidance is required in connection with collaborations described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, issue such additional guidance as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the review, consistent with applicable law.
(3)
Briefing
Not later than 150 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the findings of the review, including recommendations for such legislative action as the Secretary considers appropriate to facilitate collaboration between United States military commanders and qualified non-Federal entities for support of missions of the Armed Forces abroad.
(d)
Qualified non-Federal entity defined
In this section, the term
qualified non-Federal entity
means an organization that—
(1)
is based in the United States;
(2)
has an independent board of directors and is subject to independent financial audits;
(3)
is privately-funded;
(4)
is described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code;
(5)
provides international humanitarian, economic, or other non-lethal assistance;
(6)
is a Private Voluntary Organization registered with the United States Agency for International Development; and
(7)
has a stated mission of supporting the safety and security of members of the Armed Forces, civilian personnel of the United States, and United States missions abroad.
1083.
Federal charter for Spirit of America
(a)
Federal charter
(1)
In general
Part B of subtitle II of title 36, United States Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 2003 the following new chapter:
2005
Spirit of America
Sec.
200501. Organization.
200502. Purposes.
200503. Powers.
200504. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
200505. Annual report.
200501.
Organization
(a)
Federal charter
Spirit of America (in this chapter
the corporation
), a nonprofit corporation, is a federally chartered corporation.
(b)
Expiration of charter
If the corporation does not comply with the provisions of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter expires.
(c)
Scope of charter
Nothing in the charter granted by this chapter shall be construed as conferring special rights or privileges upon the corporation, or as placing upon the Department of Defense any obligation with respect to the corporation.
(d)
No claim of Governmental approval or authority
The corporation may not claim approval of Congress, or the authority of the United States, for any activity of the corporation.
200502.
Purposes
The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its constitution and bylaws and include the following patriotic, charitable, and inspirational purposes:
(1)
To respond to the needs of local populations abroad, as identified by members of the Armed Forces and diplomats of the United States abroad.
(2)
To provide privately-funded humanitarian, economic, and other nonlethal assistance to address such needs.
(3)
To support the safety and success of members of the Armed Forces and diplomats of the United States abroad.
(4)
To connect the people of the United States more closely to the members of the Armed Forces and diplomats of the United States abroad, and to the missions carried out by such personnel abroad.
(5)
To demonstrate the goodwill of the people of the United States to peoples around the world.
200503.
Powers
The corporation may—
(1)
adopt and amend a constitution, by-laws, and regulations to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
(2)
adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(3)
establish and maintain offices to conduct its activities;
(4)
enter into contracts;
(5)
acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
(6)
establish, regulate, and discontinue subordinate State and territorial subdivisions and local chapters or posts;
(7)
publish a magazine and other publications (including through the Internet);
(8)
sue and be sued; and
(9)
do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the purposes of the corporation as provided in its constitution, by-laws, and regulations.
200504.
Duty to maintain tax-exempt status
The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
200505.
Annual report
The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report shall be submitted as the same time as the report of the audit required by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as public document.
.
(2)
Tables of chapters
The table of chapters at the beginning of title 36, United States Code, and at the beginning of subtitle II of such title, are each amended by inserting after the item relating to chapter 2003 the following new item:
2005.
Spirit of America
200501.
.
(b)
Distribution of corporation assistance abroad through Department of Defense
(1)
Acceptance and coordination of assistance
The Department of Defense (including members of the Armed Forces) may, in the discretion of the Secretary of Defense and in accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary—
(A)
accept from Spirit of America, a federally-chartered corporation under
chapter 2005
of title 36, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)), humanitarian, economic, and other nonlethal assistance funded by private funds in the carrying out of the purposes of the corporation; and
(B)
respond to requests from the corporation for the identification of the needs of local populations abroad for assistance, and coordinate with the corporation in the provision and distribution of such assistance, in the carrying out of such purposes.
(2)
Distribution of assistance to local populations
In accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary, members of the Armed Forces abroad may provide to local populations abroad humanitarian, economic, and other nonlethal assistance provided to the Department by the corporation pursuant to this subsection.
(3)
Scope of guidance
The guidance issued pursuant to this subsection shall ensure that any assistance distributed pursuant to this subsection shall be for purposes of supporting the mission or missions of the Department and the Armed Forces for which such assistance is provided by the corporation.
(4)
DoD support for corporation activities
In accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary, the Department and the Armed Forces may—
(A)
provide transportation, lodging, storage, and other logistical support—
(i)
to personnel of the corporation (whether in the United States or abroad) who are carrying out the purposes of the corporation; and
(ii)
in connection with the acceptance and distribution of assistance provided by the corporation; and
(B)
use assets of the Department and the Armed Forces in the provision of support described in subparagraph (A).
1084.
Reconsideration of claims for disability compensation for veterans who were the subjects of mustard
gas or lewisite
experiments during World War II
(a)
Reconsideration of claims for disability compensation in connection with exposure to mustard gas or
lewisite
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall reconsider all claims for compensation described in paragraph (2) and make a new determination regarding each such claim.
(2)
Claims for compensation described
Claims for compensation described in this paragraph are claims for compensation under
chapter 11
of title 38, United States Code, that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines are in connection with full-body exposure to mustard gas or lewisite during active military, naval, or air service during World War II and that were denied before the date of the enactment of this Act.
(3)
Presumption of exposure
In carrying out paragraph (1), if the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or the Secretary of Defense makes a determination regarding whether a veteran experienced full-body exposure to mustard gas or lewisite, such Secretary—
(A)
shall presume that the veteran experienced full-body exposure to mustard gas or lewisite, as the case may be, unless proven otherwise; and
(B)
may not use information contained in the DoD and VA Chemical Biological Warfare Database or any list of known testing sites for mustard gas or lewisite maintained by the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Defense as the sole reason for determining that the veteran did not experience full-body exposure to mustard gas or lewisite.
(4)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report specifying any claims reconsidered under paragraph (1) that were denied during the 90-day period preceding the submittal of the report, including the rationale for each such denial.
(b)
Development of policy
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly establish a policy for processing future claims for compensation under
chapter 11
of title 38, United States Code, that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines are in connection with exposure to mustard gas or lewisite during active military, naval, or air service during World War II.
(c)
Investigation and report by Secretary of Defense
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
for purposes of determining whether a site should be added to the list of the Department of Defense of sites where mustard gas or lewisite testing occurred, investigate and assess sites where—
(A)
the Army Corps of Engineers has uncovered evidence of mustard gas or lewisite testing; or
(B)
more than two veterans have submitted claims for compensation under
chapter 11
of title 38, United States Code, in connection with exposure to mustard gas or lewisite at such site and such claims were denied; and
(2)
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on experiments conducted by the Department of Defense during World War II to assess the effects of mustard gas and lewisite on people, which shall include—
(A)
a list of each location where such an experiment occurred, including locations investigated and assessed under paragraph (1);
(B)
the dates of each such experiment; and
(C)
the number of members of the Armed Forces who were exposed to mustard gas or lewisite in each such experiment.
(d)
Investigation and report by Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall—
(1)
investigate and assess—
(A)
the actions taken by the Secretary to reach out to individuals who had been exposed to mustard gas or lewisite in the experiments described in subsection (c)(2)(A); and
(B)
the claims for disability compensation under laws administered by the Secretary that were filed with the Secretary and the percentage of such claims that were denied by the Secretary; and
(2)
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress—
(A)
a report on the findings of the Secretary with respect to the investigations and assessments carried out under paragraph (1); and
(B)
a comprehensive list of each location where an experiment described in subsection (c)(2)(A) was conducted.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The terms
active military, naval, or air service
,
veteran
, and
World War II
have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
(2)
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Special Committee on Aging of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
(3)
The term
full-body exposure
, with respect to mustard gas or lewisite, has the meaning given that term by the Secretary of Defense.
1085.
Prize competition to identify root cause of physiological episodes on Navy, Marine Corps, and Air
Force training and operational aircraft
(a)
In general
Under the authority of section 2374a of title 10, United States Code, and section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (
15 U.S.C. 3719
), the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the heads of any other appropriate Federal agencies that have experience in prize competitions, and when appropriate, in coordination with private organizations, may establish a prize competition designed to accelerate identification of the root cause or causes of physiological episodes experienced in Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force training and operational aircraft.
(b)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2018 to carry out this section.
(c)
Supplement not supplant
Any funds made available pursuant to this section are in addition to any other amount made available for research on identification of root cause or causes of physiological episodes experienced in Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force training and operational aircraft.
1086.
Exception to the interdepartmental waiver doctrine for cleanup of vehicle crashes
(a)
Responsibility for cleanup
Notwithstanding the interdepartmental waiver doctrine, the Secretary of Defense may, at the request of the affected Federal department or agency, expend funds necessary for cleanup resulting from an activity of the Department of Defense involving a vehicle crash on land or other property under the jurisdiction of another Federal department or agency.
(b)
Scope
The authority under subsection (a) includes expenditures necessary to complete cleanup to meet the regulations of the affected department or agency, which may be different than the regulations applicable to the Department.
1087.
Transfer of surplus firearms to Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety
(a)
In general
Section 40728(h) of title 36, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
(1)
Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may transfer
and inserting
The Secretary shall transfer
; and
(2)
by striking
The Secretary shall determine a reasonable schedule for the transfer of such surplus pistols.
.
(b)
Sale of M1911/M1911A1 pistols
(1)
Sale
Any M1911/M1911A1 pistols sold under the Civilian Marksmanship Program under subchapter II of
chapter 407
of title 36, United States Code, shall be sold at fair market value.
(2)
Disposition of proceeds
Any proceeds of the sale of M1911/M1911A1 pistols pursuant to paragraph (1), less transfer and storage costs, shall be covered over into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
XI
Civilian Personnel Matters
A
Department of Defense Matters
1101.
Pilot program on enhanced personnel management system for cybersecurity and legal professionals in
the Department of Defense
(a)
Pilot program required
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out within the Department of Defense a pilot program to assess the feasability and advisability of an enhanced personnel management system in accordance with this section for cybersecurity and legal professionals in the Department described in subsection (b) who enter civilian service with the Department on or after January 1, 2020.
(b)
Cybersecurity and legal professionals
(1)
In general
The cybersecurity and legal professionals described in this subsection are the following:
(A)
Civilian cybersecurity professionals in the Department of Defense consisting of civilian personnel engaged in or directly supporting planning, commanding and controlling, training, developing, acquiring, modifying, and operating systems and capabilities, and military units and intelligence organizations (other than those funded by the National Intelligence Program) that are directly engaged in or used for offensive and defensive cyber and information warfare or intelligence activities in support thereof.
(B)
Civilian legal professionals in the Department occupying legal or similar positions, as determined by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of the pilot program, that require eligibility to practice law in a State or territory of the United States.
(2)
Inapplicability to SES positions
The pilot program shall not apply to positions within the Senior Executive Service under subchapter VIII of
chapter 53
of title 5, United States Code.
(c)
Direct-appointment authority
(1)
Inapplicability of general civil service appointment authorities to appointments
Under the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense, with respect to the Defense Agencies, and the Secretary of the military department concerned, with respect to the military departments, may appoint qualified candidates as cybersecurity and legal professionals without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of
chapter 33
of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Appointment on direct-hire basis
Appointments under the pilot program shall be made on a direct-hire basis.
(d)
Term appointments
(1)
Renewable term appointments
Each individual shall serve with the Department of Defense as a cybersecurity or legal professional under the pilot program pursuant to an initial appointment to service with the Department for a term of not less than 2 years nor more than 8 years. Any term of appointment under the pilot program may be renewed for one or more additional terms of not less than 2 years nor more than 8 years as provided in subsection (h).
(2)
Length of terms
The length of the term of appointment to a position under the pilot program shall be prescribed by the Secretary of Defense taking into account the national security, mission, and other applicable requirements of the position. Positions having identical or similar requirements or terms may be grouped into categories for purposes of the pilot program. The Secretary may delegate any authority in this paragraph to a commissioned officer of the Armed Forces in pay grade O–7 or above or an employee in the Department in the Senior Executive Service.
(e)
Nature of service under appointments
(1)
Treatment of personnel appointed as
employees
Except as otherwise provided by this section, individuals serving with the Department of Defense as cybersecurity or legal professionals under the pilot program pursuant to appointments under this section shall be considered employees (as specified in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code) for purposes of the provisions of title 5, United States Code, and other applicable provisions of law, including, in particular, for purposes as follows:
(A)
Eligibility for participation in the Federal Employees' Retirement System under
chapter 84
of title 5, United States Code, subject to the provisions of section 8402 of such title and the regulations prescribed pursuant to such section.
(B)
Eligibility for enrollment in a health benefits plan under
chapter 89
of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred as the
Federal Employees Health Benefits Program
).
(C)
Eligibility for and subject to the employment protections of subpart F of part III of title 5, United States Code, relating to merit principles and protections.
(D)
Eligibility for the protections of chapter 81, of title 5, United States Code, relating to workers compensation.
(2)
Scope of rights and benefits
In administering the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense shall specify, and from time to time update, a comprehensive description of the rights and benefits of individuals serving with the Department under the pilot program pursuant to this subsection and of the provisions of law under which such rights and benefits arise.
(f)
Compensation
(1)
Basic pay
Individuals serving with the Department of Defense as cybersecurity or legal professionals under the pilot program shall be paid basic pay for such service in accordance with a schedule of pay prescribed by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of the pilot program.
(2)
Treatment as basic pay
Basic pay payable under the pilot program shall be treated for all purposes as basic pay paid under the provisions of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
Performance awards
Individuals serving with the Department as cybersecurity or legal professionals under the pilot program may be awarded such performance awards for outstanding performance as the Secretary shall prescribe for purposes of the pilot program. The performance awards may include a monetary bonus, time off with pay, or such other awards as the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the pilot program. The award of performance awards under the pilot program shall based in accordance with such policies and requirements as the Secretary shall prescribe for purposes of the pilot program.
(4)
Additional compensation
Individuals serving with the Department as cybersecurity or legal professionals under the pilot program may be awarded such additional compensation above basic pay as the Secretary (or the designees of the Secretary) consider appropriate in order to promote the recruitment and retention of highly skilled and productive cybersecurity and legal professionals to and with the Department.
(g)
Probationary period
The following terms of appointment shall be treated as a probationary period under the pilot program:
(1)
The first term of appointment of an individual to service with the Department of Defense as a cybersecurity or legal professional, regardless of length.
(2)
The first term of appointment of an individual to a supervisory position in the Department as a cybersecurity or legal professional, regardless of length and regardless of whether or not such term of appointment to a supervisory position is the first term of appointment of the individual concerned to service with the Department as a cybersecurity or legal professional.
(h)
Renewal of appointments
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe the conditions for the renewal of appointments under the pilot program. The conditions may apply to one or more categories of positions, positions on a case-by-case basis, or both.
(2)
Particular conditions
In prescribing conditions for the renewal of appointments under the pilot program, the Secretary shall take into account the following (in the order specified):
(A)
The necessity for the continuation of the position concerned based on mission requirements and other applicable justifications for the position.
(B)
The service performance of the individual serving in the position concerned, with individuals with satisfactory or better performance afforded preference in renewal.
(C)
Input from employees on conditions for renewal.
(D)
Applicable private and public sector labor market conditions
(3)
Service performance
The assessment of the service performance of an individual under the pilot program for purposes of paragraph (2)(B) shall consist of an assessment of the ability of the individual to effectively accomplish mission goals for the position concerned as determined by the supervisor or manager of the individual based on the individual's performance evaluations and the knowledge of and review by such supervisor or manager (developed in consultation with the individual) of the individual’s performance in the position. An individual's tenure of service in a position or the Department of Defense may not be the primary element of the assessment.
(i)
Professional development
The pilot program shall provide for the professional development of individuals serving with the Department of Defense as cybersecurity and legal professionals under the pilot program in a manner that—
(1)
creates opportunities for education, training, and career-broadening experiences, and for experimental opportunities in other organizations within and outside the Federal Government; and
(2)
reflects the differentiated needs of personnel at different stages of their careers.
(j)
Sabbaticals
(1)
In general
The pilot program shall provide for an individual who is in a successive term after the first 8 years with the Department of Defense as a cybersecurity or legal professional under the pilot program to take, at the election of the individual, a paid or unpaid sabbatical from service with the Department for professional development or education purposes. The length of a sabbatical shall be any length not less than 6 months nor more than 1 year (unless a different period is approved by the Secretary of the military department or head of the organization or element of the Department concerned for purposes of this subsection). The purpose of any sabbatical shall be subject to advance approval by the organization or element in the Department in which the individual is currently performing service. The taking of a sabbatical shall be contingent on the written agreement of the individual concerned to serve with the Department for an appropriate length of time at the conclusion of the term of appointment in which the sabbatical commences, with the period of such service to be in addition to the period of such term of appointment.
(2)
Number of sabbaticals
An individual may take more than one sabbatical under this subsection.
(3)
Repayment
Except as provided in paragraph (4), an individual who fails to satisfy a written agreement executed under paragraph (1) with respect to a sabbatical shall repay the Department an amount equal to any pay, allowances, and other benefits received by the individual from the Department during the period of the sabbatical.
(4)
Waiver of repayment
An agreement under paragraph (1) may include such conditions for the waiver of repayment otherwise required under paragraph (3) for failure to satisfy such agreement as the Secretary specifies in such agreement.
(k)
Regulations
The Secretary of Defense shall administer the pilot program under regulations prescribed by the Secretary for purposes of the pilot program.
(l)
Termination
(1)
In general
The authority of the Secretary of Defense to appoint individuals for service with the Department of Defense as cybersecurity or legal professionals under the pilot program shall expire on December 31, 2029.
(2)
Effect on existing appointments
The termination of authority in paragraph (1) shall not be construed to terminate or otherwise affect any appointment made under this section before December 31, 2029, that remains valid as of that date.
(m)
Implementation
(1)
Interim final rule
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe an interim final rule to implement the pilot program.
(2)
Final rule
Not later than 180 days after prescribing the interim final rule under paragraph (1) and considering public comments with respect to such interim final rule, the Secretary shall prescribe a final rule to implement the pilot program.
(3)
Objectives
The regulations prescribed under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall accomplish the objectives set forth in subsections (a) through (j) and otherwise ensure flexibility and expedited appointment of cybersecurity and legal professionals in the Department of Defense under the pilot program.
(n)
Reports
(1)
Reports required
Not later than January 30 of each of 2022, 2025, and 2028, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the carrying out of the pilot program. Each report shall include the following:
(A)
A description and assessment of the carrying out of the pilot program during the period since the commencement of the pilot program or the previous submittal of a report under this subsection, as applicable.
(B)
A description and assessment of the successes in and impediments to carrying out the pilot program system during such period.
(C)
Such recommendations as the Secretary considers appropriate for legislative action to improve the pilot program and to otherwise improve civilian personnel management of cybersecurity and legal professionals by the Department of Defense.
(D)
In the case of the report submitted in 2028, an assessment and recommendations by the Secretary on whether to make the pilot program permanent.
(2)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives.
1102.
Inclusion of Strategic Capabilities Office and Defense Innovation Unit Experimental of the
Department of Defense in personnel management authority to attract experts
in science and engineering
(a)
In general
Subsection (a) of section 1599h of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(4)
Strategic Capabilities Office
The Director of the Strategic Capabilities Office may carry out a program of personnel management authority provided in subsection (b) in order to facilitate recruitment of eminent experts in science or engineering for the Office.
(5)
DIUx
The Director of the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental may carry out a program of personnel management authority provided in subsection (b) in order to facilitate recruitment of eminent experts in science or engineering for the Unit.
.
(b)
Scope of appointment authority
Subsection (b)(1) of such section is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
and
at the end; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
(D)
in the case of the Strategic Capabilities Office, appoint scientists and engineers to a total of not more than 5 scientific and engineering positions in the Office; and
(E)
in the case of the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental, appoint scientists and engineers to a total of not more than 5 scientific and engineering positions in the Unit;
.
(c)
Extension of terms of appointment
Subsection (c)(2) of such section is amended by striking
or the Office of Operational Test and Evaluation
and inserting
the Office of Operational Test and Evaluation, the Strategic Capabilities Office, or the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental
.
1103.
Permanent authority for demonstration projects relating to acquisition personnel management
policies and
procedures
(a)
Permanent authority
Section 1762 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking subsections (g) and (h).
(b)
Scope of authority
Subsection (a) of such section is amended by striking
Commencement
.—
and all that follows through
a demonstration project
and inserting
In general
.—The Secretary of Defense may carry out demonstration projects
.
(c)
Increase in limit on number of participants
Subsection (c) of such section is amended by striking
the demonstration project under this section may not exceed 120,000
and inserting
at any one time in demonstration projects under this section may not exceed 130,000
.
(d)
Assessments
Subsection (e) of such section is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new paragraph:
(1)
Upon the completion of a demonstration project under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall provide for the conduct of an assessment of the demonstration project by an appropriate independent organization designated by the Secretary for that purpose. The Secretary shall submit to the covered congressional committees a report on each assessment conducted pursuant to this paragraph.
; and
(2)
by striking paragraph (3).
1104.
Establishment of senior scientific technical managers at Major Range and Test Facility Base facilities and Defense Test Resource Management Center
Section 2358a of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in paragraph (1)—
(i)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
, each facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, and the Defense Test Resource Management Center
after
each STRL
; and
(ii)
in subparagraph (A), by inserting
, of such facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, or the Defense Test Resource Management Center
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2)—
(i)
by striking
The positions
and inserting
(A) The laboratory positions
; and
(ii)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(B)
The test and evaluation positions described in paragraph (1) may be filled, and shall be managed, by the director of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, in the case of a position at a facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, and the director of the Defense Test Resource Management Center, in the case of a position at such center, under criteria established pursuant to section 342(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (
Public Law 103–337
;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note), relating to personnel demonstration projects at laboratories of the Department of Defense, except that the director involved shall determine the number of such positions at each facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base and the Defense Test Resource Management Center, not to exceed two percent of the number of scientists and engineers employed at the Major Range and Test Facility Base or the Defense Test Resource Management Center, as the case may be, as of the close of the last fiscal year before the fiscal year in which any appointments subject to that numerical limitations are made.
; and
(2)
in subsection (f)—
(A)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs (2) and (4), respectively;
(B)
by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated by subparagraph (A), the following new paragraph (1):
(1)
The term
Defense Test Resource Management Center
means the Department of Defense Test Resource Management Center established under section 196 of this title.
; and
(C)
by inserting after paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the following new paragraph:
(3)
The term
Major Range and Test Facility Base
means the test and evaluation facilities and resources that are designated by the Secretary of Defense as facilities and resources comprising the Major Range and Test Facility Base.
.
1105.
Extension of temporary direct hire authority for domestic defense industrial base facilities and
the major range and test facilities base
Section 1125(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2457;
10 U.S.C. 1580
note prec.) is amended by striking
and 2018
and inserting
through 2019
.
1106.
Direct hire authority for financial management experts in the Department of Defense workforce
Section 1110 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2450;
10 U.S.C. 1580
note prec.) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
the Defense Agencies or the applicable military Department
and inserting
a Department of Defense component
;
(2)
in subsection (b)(1), by striking
the Defense Agencies
and inserting
each Department of Defense component listed in subsection (f) other than the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force
;
(3)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
by striking
any Defense Agency or military department
and inserting
any Department of Defense component
; and
(B)
by striking
such Defense Agency or military department
and inserting
such Department of Defense component
; and
(4)
by striking subsection (f) and inserting the following new subsection (f):
(f)
Department of Defense component defined
In this section, the term
Department of Defense component
means the following:
(1)
A Defense Agency.
(2)
The Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(3)
The Joint Staff.
(4)
A combatant command.
(5)
The Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense.
(6)
A Field Activity of the Department of Defense.
(7)
The Department of the Army.
(8)
The Department of the Navy.
(9)
The Department of the Air Force.
.
1107.
Authority for waiver of requirement for a baccalaureate degree for positions in the Department of
Defense on cybersecurity and computer programming
(a)
Briefing on waiver required
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the feasability and advisability of the enactment into law of the waiver authority described in subsection (b) and the authorities in subsections (c) through (e).
(b)
Waiver authority
The waiver authority described in this subsection is the authority of the Secretary of Defense to waive any requirement in law for the possession of a baccalaureate degree as a condition of appointment to a position or category of positions in the Department of Defense specified in subsection (c) if the Secretary determined that the duties of the position or category of positions could be appropriately discharged by individuals demonstrating expertise other than a baccalaureate degree.
(c)
Positions
The positions or categories of positions in the Department specified in this subsection are positions or categories of positions whose primary duties involve the following:
(1)
Cybersecurity, including computer network operations, computer network defense, computer network attack, and computer network exploitation.
(2)
Computer programming.
(d)
Appointment
An individual who does not possess a baccalaureate degree could be appointed to a position covered by a waiver pursuant to subsection (b) only if the Secretary determined that the expertise demonstrated by the individual was sufficient for the appropriate discharge of the duties of the position by the individual.
(e)
Guidance
The Secretary would issue guidance for purposes of this section setting forth the following:
(1)
The positions or categories of positions in the Department subject to the waiver authorized by subsection (b).
(2)
For each position or category of positions, the expertise required for appointment to such position or category of positions.
B
Government-wide Matters
1111.
Elimination of foreign exemption provision in regard to overtime for Federal civilian
employees temporarily assigned to a foreign area
(a)
In general
Section 5542 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(h)
Notwithstanding section 13(f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (
29 U.S.C. 213(f)
), an employee who is working at a location in a foreign country, or in a territory under the jurisdiction of the United States to which the exemption under such section 13(f) applies, in temporary duty travel status while maintaining an official duty station or worksite in an area of the United States that is not exempted under such section 13(f) shall not be considered, for all purposes, to be exempted from section 7 of such Act (
29 U.S.C. 207
) on the basis of the employee performing work at such a location.
.
(b)
Federal wage system employees
Section 5544 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Notwithstanding section 13(f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (
29 U.S.C. 213(f)
), an employee whose overtime pay is determined in accordance with subsection (a) who is working at a location in a foreign country, or in a territory under the jurisdiction of the United States to which the exemption under such section 13(f) applies, in temporary duty travel status while maintaining an official duty station or worksite in an area of the United States that is not exempted under such section 13(f) shall not be considered, for all purposes, to be exempted from section 7 of such Act (
29 U.S.C. 207
) on the basis of the employee performing work at such a location.
.
(c)
Conforming repeal
Section 5542(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (6).
1112.
One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal civilian employees working overseas
Section 1101(a) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1137 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is further amended by striking
through 2017
and inserting
through 2018
.
1113.
One-year extension of temporary authority to grant allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian
personnel on official duty in a combat zone
Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (
Public Law 109–234
; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4616) and most recently amended by section 1133 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is further amended by striking “2018” and inserting “2019”.
XII
Matters Relating to Foreign Nations
A
Assistance and Training
1201.
Support of special operations for irregular warfare
(a)
Authority
The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence of the relevant Chief of Mission, expend up to $10,000,000 during each of fiscal years 2018 through 2021 to provide support to foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals engaged in supporting or facilitating ongoing irregular warfare operations by United States Special Operations Forces.
(b)
Funds
Funds for support under this section in a fiscal year shall be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated for that fiscal year for the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance.
(c)
Procedures
(1)
In general
The authority in this section shall be exercised in accordance with such procedures as the Secretary shall establish for purposes of this section.
(2)
Elements
The procedures that shall establish, at a minimum, the following:
(A)
Policy guidance for the execution of activities under the authority in this section.
(B)
The processes through which activities under the authority in this section are to be developed, validated, and coordinated, as appropriate, with relevant entities of the United States Government.
(3)
Notice to Congress on procedures and material modifications
The Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of the procedures established pursuant to this section before any exercise of the authority in this section, and shall notify such committee of any material modification of the procedures.
(d)
Notification
(1)
In general
Not later than 15 days before exercising the authority in this section to make funds available to initiate support of an approved military operation or changing the scope or funding level of any support under this section for such an operation by $500,000 or an amount equal to 10 percent of such funding level (whichever is less), or not later than 48 hours after exercising such authority if the Secretary determines that extraordinary circumstances that impact the national security of the United States exist that otherwise prevent notice under this subsection before the exercise of such authority, the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of the use of such authority with respect to such operation. Any such notification shall be in writing.
(2)
Elements
A notification required by this subsection shall include the following:
(A)
The type of support provided or to be provided to United States Special Operations Forces.
(B)
The type of support provided or to be provided to the recipient of the funds.
(C)
The amount obligated under the authority to provide support.
(e)
Limitation on delegation
The authority of the Secretary to make funds available under this section for support of a military operation may not be delegated.
(f)
Construction of authority
Nothing in this section shall be construed to constitute a specific statutory authorization for any of the following:
(1)
The conduct of a covert action, as such term is defined in section 503(e) of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3093(e)
).
(2)
The introduction of United States Armed Forces into hostilities or into situations wherein hostilities are clearly indicated by the circumstances.
(3)
The conduct or support of activities, directly or indirectly, that are inconsistent with the laws of armed conflict.
(g)
Programmatic and policy oversight
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict shall have primary programmatic and policy oversight within the Office of the Secretary of Defense of support to irregular warfare activities authorized by this section.
(h)
Biannual reports
(1)
Report on preceding fiscal year
Not later than 120 days after the close of each fiscal year in which subsection (a) is in effect, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the support provided under this section during the preceding fiscal year.
(2)
Report on current calendar year
Not later than 180 days after the submittal of each report required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the support provided under this section during the first half of the fiscal year in which the report under this paragraph is submitted.
(3)
Elements
Each report required by this subsection shall include the following:
(A)
A summary of the ongoing irregular warfare operations by United States Special Operations Forces that were supported or facilitated by foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals for which support was provided under this section during the period covered by such report.
(B)
A description of the support or facilitation provided by such foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals to United States Special Operations Forces during such period.
(C)
The type of recipients that were provided support under this section during such period, identified by authorized category (foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals).
(D)
A detailed description of the support provided to the recipients under this section during such period.
(E)
The total amount obligated for support under this section during such period, including budget details.
(F)
The intended duration of support provided under this section during such period
(G)
An assessment of value of the support provided under this section during such period, including a summary of significant activities undertaken by foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals to support irregular warfare operations by United States Special Operations Forces.
(H)
The total amount obligated for support under this section in prior fiscal years.
(i)
Irregular warfare defined
In this section, the term
irregular warfare
means activities in support of predetermined United States policy and military objectives conducted by, with, and through regular forces, irregular forces, groups, and individuals participating in competition between state and non-state actors short of traditional armed conflict.
1202.
Modification of authority on support of special operations to combat terrorism
(a)
Oversight of support
Section 127e of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection (g):
(g)
Oversight by ASD for SOLIC
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict shall have primary responsibility within the Office of the Secretary of Defense for oversight of policies and programs for support authorized by this section.
.
(b)
Reports
Subsection (h) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (a)(1) of this section is further amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in the heading, by striking
calendar year
and inserting
fiscal year
;
(B)
by striking
March 1 each year
and inserting
120 days after the end of the preceding fiscal year of each year
; and
(C)
by striking
the preceding calendar year
and inserting
such preceding fiscal year
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in the heading, by striking
calendar year
and inserting
fiscal year
;
(B)
by striking
September 1
and inserting
July 1
; and
(C)
by striking
the calendar year
and inserting
the fiscal year
.
1203.
Modifications of certain authority in connection with reform of defense security cooperation
programs and activities
(a)
Defense institutional capacity building of foreign countries
Section 332 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by inserting
members of the armed forces and
before
civilian employees
in the matter preceding paragraph (1);
(2)
in subsection (b)(2)(B)—
(A)
by striking
employees
both place it appears and inserting
advisors
; and
(B)
by striking
employee's
and inserting
advisor's
; and
(3)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
by inserting
member of the armed forces or
before
civilian employee of the Department of Defense
in the matter preceding paragraph (1);
(B)
in paragraph (1), by striking
employee as an
; and
(C)
in paragraph (3), by striking
the employee
and inserting
the advisor
.
(b)
Defense institutional capacity building of foreign forces
Section 333(c)(4) of such title is amended by striking
the Department
and inserting
the Department of Defense or another department or agency of the United States Government
.
1204.
Global Security Contingency Fund matters
(a)
Two-year extension of authority
Section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
22 U.S.C. 2151
note) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (i), by striking
September 30, 2017
and inserting
September 30, 2019
; and
(2)
in subsection (p)—
(A)
by striking
September 30, 2017
and inserting
September 30, 2019
; and
(B)
by striking
through 2017
and inserting
through 2019
.
(b)
Purposes of Fund
Subsection (b) of such section is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
, or other national security forces that conduct border and maritime security, internal defense, and counterterrorism operations
and inserting
or other national security forces
;
(B)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
or
at the end;
(C)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
provide support to civil or national security authorities in connection with humanitarian assistance (including demining), disaster response, and disaster risk reduction activities.
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
rule of law programs,
and all that follows and inserting
rule of law programs and stabilization efforts in a country.
.
(c)
Notice to Congress on initiation of assistance
Subsection (l) of such section is amended by striking
30 days
and inserting
15 days
.
1205.
Defense Institute of International Legal Studies
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may operate an institute to be known as the
Defense Institute of International Legal Studies
(in this section referred to as the
Institute
) in accordance with this section for purposes in furtherance of United States security and foreign policy objectives of—
(1)
promoting an understanding of and appreciation for the rule of law; and
(2)
encouraging the international development of internal capacities of foreign governments for civilian control of the military, military justice, the legal aspects of peacekeeping, good governance and anti-corruption in defense reform, and human rights.
(b)
Activities
In carrying out the purposes specified in subsection (a), the Institute may conduct activities as follows:
(1)
Research, communication, and exchange of ideas.
(2)
Education and training involving military and civilian personnel, both within and outside the United States.
(3)
Building the legal capacity of foreign military and other security forces, including equitable, transparent, and accountable defense institutions, civilian control of the military, human rights, and democratic governance.
(4)
Institutional legal capacity building of foreign defense and security institutions.
(c)
Concurrence of Secretary of State
The concurrence of the Secretary of State is required to conduct activities specified in subsection (b).
(d)
Department of Defense review
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a comprehensive review of the mission, workforce, funding, and other support of the Institute.
(2)
Elements
The review shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(A)
An assessment of the scope of the mission of the Institute, taking into account the increasing security cooperation authorities and requirements of the Department of Defense, including core rule of law training in the United States and abroad, defense legal institution building, and statutorily required human rights and legal capacity building of foreign security forces.
(B)
An assessment of the workforce of the Institute, including whether it is appropriately sized to align with the full scope of the mission of the Institute.
(C)
A review of the funding mechanisms for the activities of the Institute, including the current mechanisms for reimbursing the Institute by the Department of State and by the Department of Defense through the budget of the Defense Security Cooperation Agency.
(D)
An evaluation of the feasibility and advisability of the provision of funds appropriated for the Department of Defense directly to the Institute, and the actions, if any, required to authorize the Institute to receive such funds directly.
(E)
A description of the challenges, if any, of the Institute to increase its capacity to provide residence courses to meet demands for training and assistance.
(F)
An assessment of the capacity of the Department of Defense to assess, monitor, and evaluate the effectiveness of the human rights training and other activities of the Institute.
(3)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report summarizing the findings of the review and any recommendations for enhancing the capability of the Institute to fulfill its mission that the Secretary considers appropriate.
B
Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan
1211.
Extension of Commanders' Emergency Response Program and related authorities
(a)
CERP
Section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1619), as most recently amended by section 1211(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2477), is further amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
December 31, 2018
and inserting
December 31, 2019
;
(2)
in subsection (b), by striking
fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018
and inserting
each of fiscal years 2017, 2018, and 2019
; and
(3)
in subsection (f), by striking
December 31, 2018
and inserting
December 31, 2019
.
(b)
Payments for redress of certain injuries
Section 1211(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (130 Stat. 2478) is amended by striking
December 31, 2018
and inserting
December 31, 2019
.
1212.
Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and provide defense services
to the military
and security forces of Afghanistan
(a)
Expiration
Subsection (h) of section 1222 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1992), as most recently amended by section 1213 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2478), is further amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
.
(b)
Excess defense articles
Subsection (i)(2) of such section 1222, as so amended, is further amended by striking
December 31, 2017
each place it appears and inserting
December 31, 2018
.
1213.
Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of certain coalition nations for support provided to United States military operations
(a)
Extension
Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–181
; 122 Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 1218 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is further amended by striking
the period beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on December 31, 2017,
and inserting
fiscal year 2018,
.
(b)
Limitations on amounts available
Subsection (d)(1) of such section, as so amended, is further amended—
(1)
in the first sentence, by striking
during the period beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on December 31, 2017, may not exceed $1,100,000,000
and inserting
during fiscal year 2018 may not exceed $900,000,000
; and
(2)
in the second sentence, by striking
the period beginning on October 1, 2016 and ending on December 31, 2017, may not exceed $900,000,000
and inserting
during fiscal year 2018 may not exceed $700,000,000
.
(c)
Extension of reporting requirement on reimbursement of Pakistan for security enhancement activities
Subsection (e)(2) of such section, as added by section 1218 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is amended by inserting
and annually thereafter,
after
December 31, 2017,
.
(d)
Extension of notice requirement relating to reimbursement of Pakistan for support provided by
Pakistan
Section 1232(b)(6) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, as most recently amended by section 1218(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
September 30, 2018
.
(e)
Extension of limitation on reimbursement of Pakistan pending certification on Pakistan
Section 1227(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2001), as most recently amended by section 1218(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by striking
for any period prior to December 31, 2017
and inserting
for fiscal year 2018 and any prior fiscal year
.
(f)
Additional limitation on reimbursement of Pakistan pending certification on Pakistan
Of the total amount of reimbursements and support authorized for Pakistan during fiscal year 2018 pursuant to the second sentence of section 1233(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (as amended by subsection (b)(2)), $350,000,000 shall not be eligible for the waiver under section 1227(d)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (126 Stat. 2001) unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional defense committees that—
(1)
Pakistan continues to conduct military operations that are contributing to significantly disrupting the safe havens, fundraising and recruiting efforts, and freedom of movement of the Haqqani Network and Lashkar-e-Tayyiba in Pakistan;
(2)
Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment to prevent the Haqqani Network and Lashkar-e-Tayyiba from using any Pakistan territory as a safe haven and for fundraising and recruiting efforts;
(3)
the Government of Pakistan is making an attempt to actively coordinate with the Government of Afghanistan to restrict the movement of militants, such as the Haqqani Network and Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border; and
(4)
Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting senior leaders and mid-level operatives of the Haqqani Network and Lashkar-e-Tayyiba.
1214.
Extension of authority to acquire products and services produced in countries along a major route
of supply to Afghanistan
Section 801(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2399), as most recently amended by section 1212 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2478), is further amended by striking
December 31, 2018
and inserting
December 31, 2019
.
1215.
Extension of semiannual report on enhancing security and stability in Afghanistan
Section 1225(a)(2) of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3550), as amended by section 1215(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2480), is further amended by striking
December 15, 2019
and inserting
December 15, 2020
.
1216.
Sense of Congress regarding the Afghan special immigrant visa program
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Armed Forces, the Department of State, the United States Agency for International Development, and other agencies and departments of the United States rely on the services of Afghan nationals in a variety of sensitive and trusted capacities to support the operations of the United States Government in Afghanistan.
(2)
Afghans who have supported the United States Government in Afghanistan face grave threats from the Taliban and other terrorist groups as a result of their service.
(3)
Commander of the United States Central Command, General Joseph L. Votel, warned in a June 14, 2017, letter that
curtailing or abandoning
the special immigrant visa program for Afghans carried out under the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (
8 U.S.C. 1101
note)
would risk significantly undermining years of progress and goodwill and could serve to tip the balance in favor of malign actors
.
(4)
Commander of Resolute Support and United States Forces-Afghanistan, General John W. Nicholson Jr., warned in a June 12, 2017, letter that if such program “is not fully resourced it could significantly undermine our credibility and the 16 years of tremendous sacrifice by thousands of Afghans on behalf of Americans and Coalition partners”.
(5)
All visas allocated for such program are projected to be exhausted and all visa issuances for principal applicants will cease in October 2017, if additional visas are not authorized.
(6)
The cessation of the issuance of special immigrant visas for Afghans is likely to cause panic among the Afghans who are assisting the United States, often at great personal risk, and could significantly affect the operations of the United States Government in Afghanistan.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that an additional 4,000 visas should be made available for principal aliens who are eligible for special immigrant status under the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (
8 U.S.C. 1101
note) to prevent harm to the operations of the United States Government in Afghanistan.
1217.
Special immigrant visas for Afghan allies
Section 602(b)(3)(F) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (
8 U.S.C. 1101
note) is amended in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking “11,000” and inserting “15,000”.
C
Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran
1231.
Modification of authority to provide assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq
and Syria
(a)
Clarification of construction authority
(1)
Clarification
Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3558), as most recently amended by section 1222 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2485), is further amended by striking
facility and infrastructure repair and renovation,
and inserting
infrastructure repair and renovation, small-scale construction of temporary facilities necessary to meet urgent operational or force protection requirements with a cost less than $4,000,000,
.
(2)
Additional limitations and requirements
Such section 1236 is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
(m)
Limitation on aggregate cost of construction, repair, and renovation projects
The aggregate amount of construction, repair, and renovation projects carried out under this section in any fiscal year may not exceed $30,000,000.
(n)
Approval and notice before certain construction, repair, and renovation projects
(1)
Approval
A construction, repair, or renovation project costing more than $1,000,000 may not be carried out under this section unless approved in advance by the Commander of the United States Central Command.
(2)
Notice
When a decision is made to carry out a construction, repair, or renovation project to which paragraph (1) applies, the Commander of the United States Central Command shall notify in writing the appropriate committees of Congress of that decision, including the justification for the project and the estimated cost of the project. The project may be carried out only after the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date the notification is received by the committees or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notification is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of title 10, United States Code.
.
(3)
Element in quarterly reports on construction, repair, and renovation
Paragraph (8) of subsection (d) of such section 1236 is amended to read as follows:
(8)
A list of new projects for construction, repair, or renovation commenced during the period covered by such progress report, and a list of projects for construction, repair, or renovation continuing from the period covered by the preceding progress report.
.
(b)
Funding
Subsection (g) of such section 1236, as most recently amended by section 1222 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended—
(1)
by striking
in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 for Overseas Contingency Operations in title XV for fiscal year 2017
and inserting
for the Department of Defense for Overseas Contingency Operations for fiscal year 2018
; and
(2)
by striking
$630,000,000
and inserting
$1,269,000,000
.
(c)
Name of Islamic State or Iraq and Syria
(1)
In general
Such section 1236 is further amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)(1)—
(i)
by striking
the Levant
and inserting
Syria
; and
(ii)
by striking
ISIL
each place it appears and inserting
ISIS
; and
(B)
in subsection (l)—
(i)
in paragraph (1)(B)(i), by striking
the Levant (ISIL)
and inserting
Syria (ISIS)
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (2)(A), by striking
ISIL
and inserting
ISIS
.
(2)
Heading amendment
The heading of such section 1236 is amended to read as follows:
1236.
Authority to provide assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria
.
1232.
Modification of authority to provide assistance to the vetted Syrian opposition
(a)
Nature of assistance
Subsection (a) of section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3541), as amended by section 1221(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2485), is further amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking
construction of training and associated facilities
and inserting
construction and repair of training and associated facilities or other facilities necessary to meet urgent military operational requirements of a temporary nature with a cost less than $4,000,000
.
(b)
Scope of element on construction projects in quarterly progress reports
Subsection (d)(9) of such section 1209 is amended by inserting before the semicolon the following:
, including new construction or repair commenced during the period covered by such progress report and construction and repair continuing from the period covered by the preceding progress report
.
(c)
Notice on new initiatives
(1)
In general
Subsection (f) of such section 1209, as most recently amended by section 1221(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended to read as follows:
(f)
Notice to Congress before initiation of new initiatives
Not later than 30 days before initiating a new initiative under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a notice setting forth the following:
(1)
The initiative to be carried out, including a detailed description of the assistance provided.
(2)
The budget, implementation timeline and anticipated delivery schedule for the assistance to which the initiative relates, the military department responsible for management and the associated program executive office, and the completion date for the initiative.
(3)
The amount, source, and planned expenditure of funds to carry out the initiative.
(4)
Any financial or other support for the initiation provided by foreign governments.
(5)
Any other information with respect to the initiative that the Secretary considers appropriate.
.
(2)
Effective date
The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to new initiatives initiated under section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 on or after the date that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Limitation on aggregate cost of construction and repair projects
Such section 1209 is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(l)
Limitation on aggregate cost of construction and repair projects
The aggregate amount of construction and repair projects carried out under this section in any fiscal year may not exceed $10,000,000.
.
(e)
Approval and notice before certain construction and repair projects
Such section 1209 is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(m)
Approval and notice before certain construction and repair projects
(1)
Approval
A construction or repair project costing more than $1,000,000 may not be carried out under this section unless approved in advance by the Commander of the United States Central Command.
(2)
Notice
When a decision is made to carry out a construction or repair project to which paragraph (1) applies, the Commander of the United States Central Command shall notify in writing the appropriate committees of Congress of that decision, including the justification for the project and the estimated cost of the project. The project may be carried out only after the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date the notification is received by the committees or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notification is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of title 10, United States Code.
.
1233.
Extension and modification of authority to support operations and activities of the Office of
Security
Cooperation in Iraq
(a)
Extension of authority
Subsection (f)(1) of section 1215 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is amended by striking
fiscal year 2017
and inserting
fiscal year 2018
.
(b)
Amount available
(1)
In general
Such section is further amended—
(A)
in subsection (c), by striking
fiscal year 2017 may not exceed $70,000,000
and inserting
fiscal year 2018 may not exceed $42,000,000
; and
(B)
in subsection (d), by striking
fiscal year 2017
and inserting
fiscal year 2018
.
(2)
Limitation of use of FY18 funds pending plan
Of the amount available for fiscal year 2018 for section 1215 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, as amended by this section, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended until 30 days after the date on which the plan required by the joint explanatory statement to accompany the conference report on S.2943 of the 114th Congress, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, and entitled
to transition the activities conducted by OSC-I but funded by the Department of Defense to another entity or transition the funding of such activities to another source
is provided to the appropriate committees of Congress.
(c)
Clarification of OSC-I mandate and expansion of eligible recipients
Subsection (f) of such section is further amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
training activities in support of Iraqi Ministry of Defense and Counter Terrorism Service personnel
and all that follows and inserting “activities to support the following:
(A)
Defense institution building to mitigate capability gaps and promote effective and sustainable defense institutions.
(B)
Professionalization, strategic planning and reform, financial management, manpower management, and logistics management of military and other security forces of or associated with the Government of Iraq, including Kurdish and tribal security forces or other local security forces with a national security mission, at a base or facility of the Government of Iraq.
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in the heading, by striking
of training
; and
(B)
by striking
training
and inserting
activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq
.
1234.
Modification and additional elements in annual report on the military power of Iran
(a)
In general
Section 1245(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (5)—
(A)
by inserting
and from
after
transfers to
;
(B)
by striking
from non-Iranian sources
and inserting
from or to non-Iranian sources or destinations
; and
(C)
by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, including transfers that pertain to nuclear development, ballistic missiles, and chemical, biological, and advanced conventional weapons, weapon systems, and delivery vehicles
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(6)
An assessment of the use of civilian transportation infrastructure and assets, including seaports, airports, and commercial vessels and aircraft, used to transport illicit military cargo to or from Iran, including military personnel, military goods, and related components.
(7)
An assessment of military-to-military cooperation between Iran and foreign counties, including Cuba, North Korea, Pakistan, Sudan, Syria, Venezuela, and any other country designated by the Secretary of Defense with additional reference to cooperation and collaboration on the development of nuclear, biological, chemical, and advanced conventional weapons, weapon systems, and delivery vehicles.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to reports required to be submitted under section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 after that date.
D
Matters Relating to the Russian Federation
1241.
Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the United States and the Russian
Federation
Section 1232 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by inserting
or 2018
after
fiscal year 2017
; and
(B)
by inserting
in the fiscal year concerned
after
may be used
; and
(2)
in subsection (c), by inserting
with respect to funds for a fiscal year
after
the limitation in subsection (a)
.
1242.
Extension of limitation on availability of funds relating to activities to recognize the
sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea
Section 1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by inserting
or 2018
after
fiscal year 2017
; and
(2)
in subsection (b), by inserting
for a fiscal year
after
expenditure of funds
.
1243.
Extension of Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative
(a)
Extension
Subsection (h) of section 1250 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 1068), as amended by section 1237 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2494), is further amended by striking
December 31, 2018
and inserting
December 31, 2019
.
(b)
Funding for fiscal year 2018
Subsection (f) of such section 1250, as added by subsection (a) of such section 1237, is further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
For fiscal year 2018, $500,000,000.
.
(c)
Availability of funds
Subsection (c) of such section 1250, as amended by subsection (c) of such section 1237, is further amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by inserting after
pursuant to subsection (f)(2)
the following:
, or more than $250,000,000 of the funds available for fiscal year 2018 pursuant to subsection (f)(3),
;
(2)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
with respect to the fiscal year concerned
after
is a certification
; and
(3)
in paragraph (3)—
(A)
by inserting
or 2018
after
in fiscal year 2017
; and
(B)
by striking
in paragraph (2), such funds may be used in that fiscal year
and inserting
in paragraph (2) with respect to such fiscal year, such funds may be used in such fiscal year
.
1244.
Extension of authority on training for Eastern European national security forces in the course of
multilateral exercises
(a)
Extension
Subsection (h) of section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
10 U.S.C. 2282
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
September 30, 2018
and inserting
December 31, 2020
; and
(2)
by striking
fiscal years 2016 through 2018
and inserting
fiscal year 2016 through calendar year 2020
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendments
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by striking
military
each place it appears and inserting
security
;
(2)
in subsection (e), by striking
that
and inserting
than
; and
(3)
in subsection (f), by striking
section 2282
and inserting
chapter 16
.
1245.
Security assistance for Baltic nations for joint program for
resiliency and deterrence against aggression
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, conduct or support a joint program of the Baltic nations to improve their resilience against and build their capacity to deter aggression by the Russian Federation.
(b)
Joint program
For purposes of subsection (a), a joint program of the Baltic nations may be either of the following:
(1)
A program jointly agreed by the Baltic nations that builds interoperability among those countries.
(2)
An agreement for the joint procurement by the Baltic nations of defense articles or services using assistance provided pursuant to subsection (a).
(c)
Participation of other countries
Any country other than a Baltic nation may participate in the joint program described in subsection (a), but only using funds of such country.
(d)
Limitation on amount
The total amount of assistance provided pursuant to subsection (a) in fiscal year 2018 may not exceed $100,000,000.
(e)
Funding
Amounts for assistance provided pursuant to subsection (a) shall be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act and available for the European Deterrence Initiative (EDI).
(f)
Baltic nations defined
In this section, the term
Baltic nations
means the following:
(1)
Estonia.
(2)
Latvia.
(3)
Lithuania.
1246.
Annual report on military and security developments involving the
Russian Federation
Section 1245(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3566), as most recently amended by section 1235(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2490), is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (14) through (20) as paragraphs (15) through (21), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (13) the following new paragraph (14):
(14)
An assessment of Russia's hybrid warfare strategy and capabilities, including—
(A)
Russia’s information warfare strategy and capabilities, including the use of misinformation, disinformation, and propaganda in social and traditional media;
(B)
Russia’s financing of political parties, think tanks, media organizations, and academic institutions;
(C)
Russia’s malicious cyber activities;
(D)
Russia’s use of coercive economic tools, including sanctions, market access, and differential pricing, especially in energy exports; and
(E)
Russia’s use of criminal networks and corruption to achieve political objectives.
.
1247.
Annual report on attempts of the Russian Federation to provide disinformation and propaganda to members of the Armed Forces by social media
(a)
Annual report required
Not later than March 31 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on attempts by the Russian Federation, or any foreign person acting as an agent of or on behalf of the Russian Federation, during the preceding year to knowingly disseminate Russian Federation-supported disinformation or propaganda, through social media applications or related Internet-based means, to members of the Armed Forces with probable intent to cause injury to the United States or advantage the Government of the Russian Federation.
(b)
Form
Each report under this section shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
1248.
Support of European Deterrence Initiative to deter Russian aggression
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
Military exercises, such as Exercise Nifty Nugget and Exercise Reforger during the Cold War, have historically made important contributions to testing operational concepts, technologies, and leadership approaches; identifying limiting factors in the execution of operational plans and appropriate corrective action; and bolstering deterrence against adversaries by demonstrating United States military capabilities.
(2)
Military exercises with North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allies enhance the interoperability and strategic credibility of the alliance.
(3)
The increase in conventional, nuclear, and hybrid threats by the Russian Federation against the security interests of the United States and allies in Europe requires substantial and sustained investment to improve United States combat capability in Europe.
(4)
The decline of a permanent United States military presence in Europe in recent years increases the likelihood the United States will rely on being able to flow forces from the continental United States to the European theater in the event of a major contingency.
(5)
Senior military leaders, including the Commander of United States Transportation Command, have warned that a variety of increasingly advanced capabilities, especially the proliferation of anti-access, area denial (A2/AD) capabilities, have given adversaries of the United States the ability to challenge the freedom of movement of the United States military in all domains from force deployment to employment to disrupt, delay, or deny operations.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that, to enhance the European Deterrence Initiative and bolster deterrence against Russian aggression, the United States, together with North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies and other European partners, should demonstrate its resolve and ability to meet its commitments under Article V of the North Atlantic Treaty through appropriate military exercises with an emphasis on participation of United States forces based in the continental United States and testing strategic and operational logistics and transportation capabilities.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth the following:
(A)
An analysis of the challenges to the ability of the United States to flow significant forces from the continental United States to the European theater in the event of a major contingency.
(B)
The plans of the Department of Defense, including the conduct of military exercises, to address such challenges.
(2)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
1249.
Sense of Congress on the European Deterrence Initiative
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the European Deterrence Initiative will bolster efforts to deter further Russian aggression by providing resources to—
(A)
train and equip the military forces of North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and non-North Atlantic Treaty Organization partners in order to improve responsiveness, expand expeditionary capability, and strengthen combat effectiveness across the spectrum of security environments;
(B)
enhance the indications and warning, interoperability, and logistics capabilities of Allied and partner military forces to increase their ability to respond to external aggression, defend sovereignty and territorial integrity, and preserve regional stability;
(C)
improve the agility and flexibility of military forces required to address threats across the full spectrum of domains and effectively operate in a wide array of coalition operations across diverse global environments from North Africa and the Middle East to Eastern Europe and the Arctic; and
(D)
mitigate potential gaps forming in the areas of information warfare, Anti-Access Area Denial, and force projection;
(2)
investments that support the security and stability of Europe, and that assist European nations in further developing their security capabilities, are in the long-term vital national security interests of the United States; and
(3)
funds for such efforts should be authorized and appropriated in the base budget of the Department of Defense in order to ensure continued and planned funding to address long-term stability in Europe, reassure the European allies and partners of the United States, and deter further Russian aggression.
1250.
Enhancement of Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative
Section 1250(b) of National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 126 Stat. 1068), as amended by section 1237(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2495), is further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(12)
Treatment of wounded Ukraine soldiers in the United States in medical treatment facilities through the Secretarial Designee Program, and transportation, lodging, meals, and other appropriate non-medical support in connection with such treatment (including incidental expenses in connection with such support).
.
1251.
Sense of Congress on the importance of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Intelligence Fusion
Center
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Intelligence Fusion Center provides a crucial contribution to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization alliance and the national security of the United States.
(2)
The fast-paced evolution of the security situation throughout Europe and its periphery, as well as a marked increase in conventional, nuclear, and hybrid threats from the Russian Federation, require optimized efforts to track and attribute critical threats to the security and stability of Europe and United States national security interests.
(3)
The ability of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Intelligence Fusion Center to leverage strategic intelligence partnerships with the United States and other allies facilitates daily and direct collaboration that provides operational advantages and efficiencies needed to ensure the rapid and proper response by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to Russian aggression in the conventional, nuclear, and hybrid domains.
(4)
The collocation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Intelligence Fusion Center with the Joint Intelligence Analysis Complex of the United States European Command facilitates the sharing and fusion of intelligence, contributes to filling intelligence gaps within both the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the United States European Command, and supports a common intelligence picture for the North Atlantic Council, which is essential to establishing political consensus on evaluating, analyzing, and attributing existing and emerging threats.
(5)
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization Intelligence Fusion Center and its collocation with the Joint Intelligence Analysis Complex contribute significantly to providing the North Atlantic Treaty Organization alliance and the United States European Command timely and effective indications and warnings of threats emanating from within and around Europe.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the collocation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Intelligence Fusion Center with the Joint Intelligence Analysis Complex of the United States European Command provides the optimal solution to intelligence and operational requirements, while fostering critical diplomatic relationships, and is the most efficient configuration of the intelligence enterprise.
E
Matters Relating to the Asia-Pacific Region
1261.
Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may carry out a program of activities described in subsection (b) for the purpose of enhancing stability in the Asia-Pacific region. The program of activities shall be known as the
Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative
.
(b)
Activities
The activities described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Activities to increase the presence and enhance the posture of the United States Armed Forces in the Asia-Pacific region.
(2)
Bilateral and multilateral military training and exercises with allies and partner nations in the Asia-Pacific region.
(3)
Activities to improve military and defense infrastructure in the Asia-Pacific region in order to enhance the responsiveness and capabilities of the United States Armed Forces in that region.
(4)
Activities to enhance the storage and pre-positioning in the Asia-Pacific region of equipment of the United States Armed Forces.
(5)
Activities to build the defense and security capacity of the United States Armed Forces in the Asia-Pacific region and, using the authorities specified in subsection (c), the defense and security capacity of allies and partner nations in that region.
(c)
Activities To build defense and security capacity of allies and partner nations
The activities to build the defense and security capacity of allies and partner nations in the Asia-Pacific region described in subsection (b)(5) may include activities under the authorities of the Department of Defense as follows:
(1)
Section 2282 of title 10, United States Code, or section 333 of such title (its successor section), relating to authority to build the capacity of foreign security forces.
(2)
Section 332 of title 10, United States Code, relating to defense institution capacity building for friendly foreign countries and international and regional organizations.
(3)
Section 1263 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
10 U.S.C. 2282
note), relating to the Southeast Asia Maritime Security Initiative.
(4)
Section 1206 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
10 U.S.C. 2282
note), relating to training of security forces and associated ministries of foreign countries to promote respect for the rule of law and human rights.
(5)
Any other authority available to the Secretary of Defense for the purpose of building the defense and security capacity of allies and partner nations in the Asia-Pacific region.
(d)
Transfer requirements
(1)
Use of funds only pursuant to transfer
Funds available for the Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative may be used for activities described in subsections (b) and (c) only pursuant to a transfer of such funds to or among either or both of the following accounts of the Department of Defense:
(A)
Military personnel accounts.
(B)
Operation and maintenance accounts.
(2)
Effect on authorization amounts
The transfer of an amount available for the Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative to an account under the authority provided by paragraph (1) in a fiscal year shall be deemed to increase the amount authorized for such account for such fiscal year by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
(3)
Construction with other transfer authority
The transfer authority provided by paragraph (1) is in addition to any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense by law.
(e)
Notification requirements
Not later than 15 days before that date on which a transfer of funds under subsection (d) takes effect, the Secretary of Defense shall notify the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives in writing of the transfer. Each notice of a transfer of funds shall include the following:
(1)
A detailed description of the project or activity to be supported by the transfer of funds, including any request of the Commander of the United States Pacific Command for support, urgent operational need, or emergent operational need to be satisfied by the project or activity.
(2)
The amount to be transferred and expended on the project or activity.
(3)
A timeline for expenditure of the transferred funds.
(f)
Funding
Amounts for the Asia- Pacific Stability Initiative shall be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance by section 301 and available for the Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative as specified in the funding table in section 4301.
(g)
Duration of transfer authority
The authority in subsection (d) to transfer funds expires September 30, 2019.
(h)
Asia-Pacific region defined
In this section, the term
Asia-Pacific region
means the region that falls under the responsibility and jurisdiction of United States Pacific Command.
1262.
Expansion of military-to-military engagement with the Government of Burma
Section 1253(a) of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3571;
22 U.S.C. 2151
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(6)
Courses or workshops to improve the Burmese military's—
(A)
understanding of regional and global security issues; and
(B)
ability to adhere to international training standards.
(7)
Consultation, education, and training on maritime domain awareness.
(8)
Consultation, education, and training on peacekeeping operations.
(9)
Courses or workshops on combating illegal trafficking and migration.
.
1263.
Agreement supplemental to Compact of Free Association with Palau
(a)
Approval of agreement supplemental to compact
The Compact Review Agreement and appendices signed by the United States and the Republic of Palau on September 3, 2010, in connection with section 432 of the Compact of Free Association with Palau (
Public Law 99–658
;
48 U.S.C. 1931
note), with the funding schedule therein to be modified by the parties to the Agreement as necessary and appropriate, are approved (hereinafter the
Agreement
).
(b)
Status of prior year payments
Amounts provided to the Government of Palau by the Government of the United States in fiscal years 2011 through 2017 shall also be considered as funding to implement the Agreement.
(c)
Extension of effective date
Section 105(f)(1)(B)(ix) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (
48 U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)(B)(ix)
) is amended by striking
2009
and inserting
2024
.
1264.
Workforce issues for relocation of Marines to Guam
(a)
Amendments to the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009
Subsection 2824(c)(6)(D) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of
Public Law 110–417
;
10 U.S.C. 2687
note) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
after
the Secretary of Labor
each place it appears; and
(2)
in the last sentence, by striking
determines
and inserting
determine
.
(b)
Amendment to joint resolution approving the covenant establishing Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands
Section 6(b) of the Joint Resolution entitled
A Joint Resolution to approve the
Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of America
, and for other purposes
, approved March 24, 1976 (
48 U.S.C. 1806(b)
) is amended to read as follows:
(b)
Numerical limitations for nonimmigrant workers
(1)
In general
An alien, if otherwise qualified, may, before December 31, 2023, seek admission to Guam as a nonimmigrant worker under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)
) without counting against the numerical limitations set forth in section 214(g) of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1184(g)
). The numerical limitation of such aliens may not exceed 4,000 for any fiscal year. An alien, if otherwise qualified, may, before December 31, 2023, be admitted under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of such Act for a period of up to 3 years to perform services or labor on Guam pursuant to any agreement entered into by a prime contractor or subcontractor calling for services or labor required for performance of the contract or subcontract in direct support of all military-funded construction, repairs, renovation, and facilities services necessary to enable the Marine Corps realignment in the Pacific, notwithstanding the requirement of such section that the service or labor be temporary. This subsection does not apply to any employment to be performed outside of Guam or the Commonwealth.
(2)
Applicability of certain requirements
The requirements of section 2824(c) of the Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of
Public Law 110–417
; 10 U.S.C. note) shall apply to this subsection.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (b) shall take effect on the date that is 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
1265.
United States policy with respect to freedom of navigation operations and
overflight beyond the territorial seas
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
Since the Declaration of Independence in 1776, which was inspired in part as a response to a
tyrant
who
plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts
and who wrote laws
for cutting off our Trade with all parts of the world
, freedom of seas and promotion of international commerce have been core security interests of the United States.
(2)
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of the United States establishes enumerated powers for Congress, which include regulating commerce with foreign nations, punishing piracies and felonies committed on the high seas and offenses against the law of nations, and providing and maintaining a Navy.
(3)
For centuries, the United States has maintained a commitment to ensuring the right to freedom of navigation for all law-abiding parties in every region of the world.
(4)
In support of international law, the longstanding United States commitment to freedom of navigation and ensuring the free access to sea lanes to promote global commerce remains a core security interest of the United States.
(5)
This is particularly true in areas of the world that are critical transportation corridors and key routes for global commerce, such as the South China Sea and the East China Sea, through which a significant portion of global commerce transits.
(6)
The consistent exercise of freedom of navigation operations and overflights by United States naval and air forces throughout the world plays a critical role in safeguarding the freedom of the seas for all lawful nations, supporting international law, and ensuring the continued safe passage and promotion of global commerce and trade.
(b)
Declaration of policy
It is the policy of the United States to fly, sail, and operate throughout the oceans, seas, and airspace of the world wherever international law allows.
(c)
Implementation of policy
In furtherance of the policy set forth in subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
plan and execute a robust series of routine and regular naval presence missions and freedom of navigation operations (FONOPs) throughout the world, including for critical transportation corridors and key routes for global commerce;
(2)
execute, in such critical transportation corridors, routine and regular naval presence missions and maritime freedom of navigation operations throughout the year;
(3)
in addition to the operations executed pursuant to paragraph (2), execute routine and regular maritime freedom of navigation operations throughout the year, in accordance with international law, including the use of expanded military options and maneuvers beyond innocent passage; and
(4)
to the maximum extent practicable, execute freedom of navigation operations pursuant to this subsection with regional partner countries and allies of the United States.
1266.
Sense of Congress on the importance of the rule of law in the South China Sea
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the South China Sea is a vitally important waterway for global commerce and for regional security, with almost 30 percent of the maritime trade of the world transiting the South China Sea annually;
(2)
the People’s Republic of China is undermining regional security and prosperity and challenging international rules and norms by engaging in coercive activities and attempting to limit lawful foreign operations in the South China Sea;
(3)
a tribunal determined
that China had violated the Philippines’ sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone by (a) interfering with Philippine fishing and petroleum exploration, (b) constructing artificial islands and (c) failing to prevent Chinese fishermen from fishing in the zone,
and that
Chinese law enforcement vessels had unlawfully created a serious risk of collision when they physically obstructed Philippine vessels
;
(4)
the arbitral tribunal award of July 2016 stated that there is
no legal basis for China to claim historic rights to resources within the sea areas falling within the nine-dash line
; and
(5)
the United States should play a vital role in securing the South China Sea and ensuring freedom of navigation and overflight for all countries by undertaking freedom of navigation operations on a regular and consistent basis, as well as maintaining persistent presence operations in the region.
1267.
Sense of Congress on the importance of the relationship between the United States and Japan
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the United States and Japan are indispensable partners in tackling global challenges, and have pledged significant support for efforts to counter violent extremism (including the threat of the Islamic State), combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, prevent piracy, and assist the victims of conflict and disaster worldwide;
(2)
the security alliance between the United States and Japan has evolved considerably over many decades and will continue to transform as a partnership, sharing greater responsibilities, dedicated to ensuring a secure and prosperous Asia-Pacific region and world;
(3)
the alliance between the United States and Japan is essential for ensuring maritime security and freedom of navigation, commerce, and overflight in the waters of the East China Sea;
(4)
Japan, a cornerstone of peace in the Asia-Pacific region, stands as a strong partner of the United States in efforts to uphold respect for the rule of law and to oppose the use of coercion, intimidation, or force to change the regional or global status quo, including in the East China Sea and the South China Sea, which are among the busiest waterways in the world;
(5)
the United States and Japan are committed to working together towards a world in which the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) does not threaten global peace and security with its weapons of mass destruction and illicit activities, and in which it respects human rights and its people can live in freedom;
(6)
the alliance between the United States and Japan should be strengthened to maintain peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region and beyond, to confront emerging challenges, and to safeguard maritime security and ensure freedom of navigation, commerce, and overflight in the East China Sea and the South China Sea;
(7)
although the United States Government does not take a position on sovereignty of the Senkaku Islands, the United States acknowledges that the islands are under the administration of Japan and opposes any unilateral actions that would seek to undermine their administration by Japan; and
(8)
the unilateral actions of a third party will not affect the United States acknowledgment of the administration of Japan over the Senkaku Islands, and the United States remains committed under the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security with Japan to respond to any armed attack in the territories under the administration of Japan.
1268.
Sense of Congress on the importance of the
United States
alliance with the Republic of Korea
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The Government of North Korea has repeatedly violated its commitments to the complete, verifiable, and irreversible dismantlement of its nuclear weapons programs.
(2)
Based on its past actions, including the transfer of sensitive nuclear and missile technology to state sponsors of terrorism, North Korea poses a grave risk for the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction.
(3)
North Korea has—
(A)
unilaterally withdrawn from the Korean War Armistice Agreement, done at Panmunjom, Korea, July 27, 1953; and
(B)
committed provocations against South Korea—
(i)
by sinking the warship Cheonan and killing 46 of her crew on March 26, 2010;
(ii)
by shelling Yeonpyeong Island and killing 4 South Korea civilians on November 23, 2010; and
(iii)
by its involvement in the
DarkSeoul
cyberattacks against the financial and communications interests of the Republic of Korea on March 20, 2013.
(4)
North Korea maintains a system of brutal political prison camps that contain as many as 200,000 men, women, and children, who are—
(A)
kept in atrocious living conditions with insufficient food, clothing, and medical care; and
(B)
under constant fear of rape, torture, or arbitrary execution.
(5)
The Government of North Korea has provided technical support and conducted destructive and coercive cyberattacks including against Sony Pictures Entertainment and other United States persons.
(6)
The conduct of the Government of North Korea poses an imminent threat to—
(A)
the security of the United States and its allies;
(B)
the global economy;
(C)
the safety of members of the United States Armed Forces;
(D)
the integrity of the global financial system;
(E)
the integrity of global nonproliferation programs; and
(F)
the people of North Korea.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that, in order to achieve the peaceful disarmament of North Korea, the United States should—
(1)
reaffirm the commitment of the United States to defending our allies in the region, including through the deployment of a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) battery to the Republic of Korea, and the commitment to provide extended deterrence, guaranteed by the full spectrum of United States defense capabilities, including conventional capabilities, missile defense, and the nuclear umbrella;
(2)
support ongoing efforts to strengthen the alliance between the United States and the Republic of Korea alliance, to protect the 28,500 members of the United States Armed Forces stationed on the Korean Peninsula, and to defend the alliance against any and all provocations committed by the North Korea regime; and
(3)
support efforts to deepen trilateral coordination and cooperation between the United States, the Republic of Korea, and Japan, to address the grave and growing threat of the ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons programs of North Korea.
1269.
Sense of Congress on extended deterrence for the Korean Peninsula and Japan
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the nuclear and missile program of North Korea is one of the most dangerous national security threats facing the United States today; and
(2)
given the threat posed by North Korea to our allies, the Republic of Korea and Japan, the Nuclear Posture Review that will occur this year should fully consider the perspectives of key allies and partners of the United States in East Asia, including the Republic of Korea and Japan.
1270.
Defense partnership between the United States and Taiwan
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that United States should strengthen and enhance its long-standing partnership and strategic cooperation with Taiwan, and reinforce its commitment to the Taiwan Relations Act and the
Six Assurances
as both countries work toward mutual security objectives, by—
(1)
conducting regular transfers of defense articles and defense services necessary to enable Taiwan to secure common interests and objectives with the United States, based solely on the needs of Taiwan;
(2)
assisting Taiwan in building an effective air defense capability consisting of a balance of fighters and mobile air defense systems; and
(3)
inviting Taiwan to participate in multilateral training activities hosted by the United States that increase the credible deterrent capabilities of Taiwan.
(b)
Report on naval port of call exchanges between the United States and Taiwan
(1)
Report required
Not later than September 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the following:
(A)
An assessment and planning regarding ports of call by the United States Navy at Kaohsiung, or any other suitable port or ports on the island of Taiwan.
(B)
An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of permitting the United States Pacific Command (PACOM) to receive ports of call by the navy of Taiwan in Hawaii, Guam, and other appropriate locations.
(2)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(3)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
1270A.
Naval port of call exchanges between the United States and Taiwan
The Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
reestablish regular ports of call by the United States Navy at Kaohsiung or any other suitable port or ports on the island of Taiwan; and
(2)
permit the United States Pacific Command (PACOM) to receive ports of call by the navy of Taiwan in Hawaii, Guam, and other appropriate locations.
1270B.
Program to enhance the undersea warfare capabilities of Taiwan
The Secretary of Defense shall implement a program of technical assistance and consultation to support the efforts of Taiwan to develop indigenous undersea warfare capabilities, including vehicles and sea mines, for its military forces.
1270C.
Invitation of Taiwan military forces to participate in joint military exercises
The Secretary of Defense shall invite the military forces of Taiwan to participate in one of the military exercises known as the
Red Flag
exercises, conducted at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska, and Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, that are conducted during the one-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
1270D.
Report on military exchanges between senior officers and officials of the United States and Taiwan
Not later than April 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the following:
(1)
A list of actions taken to implement the recommendations contained in section 1284 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2544).
(2)
A description of future plans to implement the recommendations contained in section 1284 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
(3)
If no actions have been taken to implement the recommendations contained in section 1284 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 or there are no future plans to implement the recommendations, the reasons why.
F
Reports
1271.
Submittal of Department of Defense Supplemental and Cost of War Execution reports on quarterly
basis
Subsection (c) of section 1212 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is amended to read as follows:
(c)
Quarterly submittal to Congress and GAO of certain reports on costs
Not later than 45 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees and the Comptroller General of the United States the Department of Defense Supplemental and Cost of War Execution report for such fiscal year quarter.
.
1272.
Consolidation of reports on United States Armed Forces, civilian employees, and contractors
deployed in
support of Operation Inherent Resolve and Operation Freedom’s Sentinel
(a)
Reports required
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on United States Armed Forces, Department of Defense civilian employees, and Department of Defense contractor employees deployed in support of Operation Inherent Resolve and Operation Freedom’s Sentinel.
(b)
Elements
Each report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
The total number of members of the United States Armed Forces, set forth by Armed Force and component (whether regular, National Guard, or Reserve), Department of Defense civilian employees, and Department of Defense contractor employees deployed in support of Operation Inherent Resolve and Operation Freedom’s Sentinel for the most recent month for which data is available.
(2)
An estimate for the 3-month period following the date on which the report is submitted of the total number of members of the United States Armed Forces, set forth by Armed Force and component (whether regular, National Guard, or Reserve), Department civilian employees, and Department contractor employees to be deployed in support of Operation Inherent Resolve and Operation Freedom’s Sentinel.
(3)
A description of any limitations on the number of United States Armed Forces, Department civilian employees, and Department contractor employees deployed in support of Operation Inherent Resolve and Operation Freedom’s Sentinel.
(4)
A description of military functions that are and are not subject to the limitations described in paragraph (3).
(5)
The total number of members of the United States Armed Forces, set forth by Armed Force and component (whether regular, National Guard, or Reserve), Department civilian employees, and Department contractor employees deployed in support of Operation Inherent Resolve or Operation Freedom’s Sentinel that are not subject to the limitations described in paragraph (3) for the most recent month for which data is available.
(6)
Any changes to the limitations described in paragraph (3), and the rationale for such changes.
(7)
Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
(c)
Form
If any report under subsection (a) is submitted in classified form, such report shall be accompanied by an unclassified summary that includes, at a minimum, the information required by subsection (b)(1).
(d)
Sunset
The requirement to submit reports under this section shall terminate on the earlier of—
(1)
the date on which Operation Inherent Resolve and Operation Freedom’s Sentinel terminate, whichever is later; or
(2)
the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(e)
Repeal of superseded provision
Section 1224 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 1053) is repealed.
G
Other Matters
1281.
Modification of availability of funds in Special Defense Acquisition Fund for precision guided
munitions
(a)
In general
Section 114(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
amount available
and all that follows through
$500,000,000
and inserting
amount of obligation authority available from the Special Defense Acquisition Fund in any fiscal year after fiscal year 2017, 20 percent
; and
(2)
by inserting after
precision guided munitions
the following:
, and associated support equipment and services,
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 2017.
1282.
Use of funds in the United States for certain United
States-Israel anti-tunnel cooperation activities
(a)
In general
Section 1279(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
22 U.S.C. 8606(b)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Use of certain amount for RDT&E in US
Of the amount provided by the United States in support under paragraph (1), not less than 50 percent of such amount shall be used for research, development, test, and evaluation activities in the United States in connection with such support.
.
(b)
Repeal of superseded limitation
Section 1295 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2562) is amended by striking subsection (c).
1283.
Foreign military sales letters of request for pricing and availability
Before delivering a formal pricing and availability response to a foreign customer with respect to a foreign military sale, the Department of Defense implementing agency shall consult with relevant United States commercial entities that would be involved in the foreign military sale case. If as a result of such consultation a commercial entity determines that the pricing and availability factors being developed by the implementing agency are not accurate, the implementing agency and the commercial entity shall each provide a justification with respect to the differences to the Defense Security Cooperation Agency within 30 days of the implementing agency being notified of such discrepancy.
1284.
Sense of Congress on reaffirming strategic partnerships and allies
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
Since World War II, the United States has sought partnership and cooperation in establishing a rules-based international order which has resulted in one of the most prosperous periods of human history.
(2)
The United States is signatory to seven mutual defense treaties with 56 different countries.
(3)
One of the United States defense alliances is the 29-nation-strong North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) which is celebrating its 68th anniversary.
(4)
The United States has not faced a more diverse and complex array of crises and threats, including the emergence of competitors like Russia and China, increasingly unstable threats from North Korea and Iran, and the continued threat from transnational violent extremist groups like the Islamic State and al–Qaeda.
(5)
The strain of a decreased military budget has decreased capability at precisely the time when demand for United States military strength has increased.
(6)
Fifteen years of continuous war has stymied military modernization, focused training on asymmetrical warfare over large-scale conflicts.
(7)
Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated that
alliances provide avenues for peace, fostering the conditions for economic growth with countries that share the same vision, while tempering the plans of those who would attack other nations or try to impose their will over the less powerful
.
(b)
Sense of congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the United States is an ally rich nation and our potential competitors—such as Russia, China, and North Korea—are ally poor;
(2)
United States allies and partners are critical to defending peace and prosperity throughout the world;
(3)
the rules-based international order supported by the United States and its allies has ensured—and will continue to promote—an international system that benefits all nations;
(4)
throughout the world, the United States will continue to foster relationships with nations of like minds and beliefs;
(5)
as the United States manages multiple strategic challenges, our enduring strength remains in alliances such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
(6)
the United States will continue to deepen alliances and expand them, and will take no ally for granted.
XIII
COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
1301.
Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds
(a)
Fiscal year 2018 cooperative threat reduction funds defined
In this title, the term
fiscal year 2018 Cooperative Threat Reduction funds
means the funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321 of the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (
50 U.S.C. 3711
).
(b)
Availability of funds
Funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be available for obligation for fiscal years 2018, 2019, and 2020.
1302.
Funding allocations
Of the $324,600,000 authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 in section 301 and made available by the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321 of the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (
50 U.S.C. 3711
), the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes specified:
(1)
For strategic offensive arms elimination, $12,100,000.
(2)
For chemical weapons destruction, $5,000,000.
(3)
For global nuclear security, $17,900,000.
(4)
For cooperative biological engagement, $172,800,000.
(5)
For proliferation prevention, $89,800,000.
(6)
For activities designated as Other Assessments/Administrative Costs, $27,000,000.
XIV
Other Authorizations
A
Military Programs
1401.
Working
capital funds
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
1402.
Chemical
Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense
(a)
Authorization
of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
(b)
Use
Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a) are authorized for—
(1)
the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (
50 U.S.C. 1521
); and
(2)
the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.
1403.
Drug
Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
1404.
Defense
Inspector General
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
1405.
Defense
Health Program
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense in providing for the health of eligible beneficiaries.
B
National Defense Stockpile
1411.
Authority to dispose of certain materials from and to acquire additional materials for the National
Defense Stockpile
(a)
Disposal authority
Pursuant to section 5(b) of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (
50 U.S.C. 98d(b)
), the National Defense Stockpile Manager may dispose of not more than 25 short tons of materials transferred from another department or agency of the United States to the National Defense Stockpile under section 4(b) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 98c(b)
) that the National Defense Stockpile Manager determines is no longer required from the stockpile.
(b)
Acquisition authority
(1)
Authority
Using funds available in the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund, the National Defense Stockpile Manager may acquire the following materials determined to be strategic and critical materials required to meet the defense, industrial, and essential civilian needs of the United States:
(A)
Electrolytic manganese metal.
(B)
Antimony.
(2)
Amount of authority
The National Defense Stockpile Manager may use up to $9,000,000 in the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund for acquisition of the materials specified in paragraph (1).
(3)
Fiscal year limitation
The authority under paragraph (1) is available for purchases during fiscal year 2018 through fiscal year 2027.
C
Chemical Demilitarization Matters
1421.
Acquisition reporting on major chemical demilitarization programs of the Department of Defense
(a)
Reporting on major programs
Acquisition reporting on each major program within the chemical demilitarization programs of the Department of Defense, including construction in connection with such program, shall—
(1)
comply with reporting guidelines for an Acquisition Category 1 (ACAT 1) system; and
(2)
be reported separately from acquisition reporting on the other major program within the chemical demilitarization programs of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Major program within the chemical demilitarization programs of the Department of Defense defined
In this section, the term
major program within the chemical demilitarization programs of the Department of Defense
means each program as follows:
(1)
Pueblo Chemical Agent Destruction Pilot Plant program, Colorado.
(2)
Blue Grass Chemical Agent Destruction Pilot Plant program, Kentucky.
D
Armed Forces Retirement Home
1431.
Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement Home
There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $64,300,000 for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.
1432.
Armed Forces Retirement Home matters
(a)
Termination of oversight responsibilities of Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
(1)
Senior Medical Advisor
Section 1513A of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (
24 U.S.C. 413a
) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (b), by striking
the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness,
in the matter preceding paragraph (1); and
(B)
in subsection (c)(4), by striking
the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
and inserting
the Secretary of Defense
.
(2)
Ombudsmen
Section 1517(e)(2) of such Act (
24 U.S.C. 417(e)(2)
) is amended by striking
the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
and inserting
the Secretary of Defense
.
(3)
Inspections
Section 1518 of such Act (
24 U.S.C. 418
) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (c)(1), by striking
the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness,
; and
(B)
in subsection (e)(1), by striking
the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
and inserting
the Secretary of Defense
.
(b)
Advisory Council
Section 1516 of such Act (
24 U.S.C. 416
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(1), by striking
15 members,
and all that follows and inserting
15 members.
; and
(2)
in subsection (f)(1), by striking
shall
and inserting
may
.
(c)
Administrators
Section 1517(b) of such Act (
24 U.S.C. 417(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
serve at the pleasure of the Secretary of Defense.
.
E
Other Matters
1441.
Authority for transfer of funds to Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, Illinois
(a)
Authority for transfer of funds
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by section 1405 and available for the Defense Health Program for operation and maintenance, $115,500,000 may be transferred by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense–Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, any funds so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
(b)
Use of transferred funds
For the purposes of subsection (b) of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4500).
1442.
Enhancement of database of emergency response capabilities of the
Department of Defense
(a)
In general
Section 1406 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
; 120 Stat. 2436;
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
The Secretary of Defense shall maintain
and inserting the following:
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish and maintain
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
by inserting
(including cyber capabilities)
after
emergency response capabilities
; and
(B)
by inserting
(including units of the National Guard and Reserves)
after
identification of the units
.
(b)
Information required To keep database current
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
Information required To keep database current
In implementing and maintaining the database required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall identify and revise the information required to be included in the database at least once every two years for purposes of keeping the database current.
.
XV
Authorization of Additional Appropriations for Overseas Contingency Operations
A
Authorization of Appropriations
1501.
Purpose
The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize appropriations for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 to provide additional funds for overseas contingency operations being carried out by the Armed Forces.
1502.
Overseas contingency operations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense for overseas contingency operations in such amounts as may be designated as provided in section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
1503.
Procurement
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table in section 4102.
1504.
Research, development, test, and evaluation
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 4202.
1505.
Operation and maintenance
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 4302.
1506.
Military personnel
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4402.
1507.
Working capital funds
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
1508.
Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
1509.
Defense Inspector General
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
1510.
Defense Health Program
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
B
Financial Matters
1521.
Treatment as additional authorizations
The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this Act.
1522.
Special transfer authority
(a)
Authority To transfer authorizations
(1)
Authority
Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal year 2018 between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
(2)
Limitation
The total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this subsection may not exceed $3,500,000,000.
(b)
Terms and conditions
Transfers under this section shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 1001.
(c)
Additional authority
The transfer authority provided by this section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 1001.
C
Other Matters
1531.
Afghanistan Security Forces Fund
(a)
Continuation of prior authorities and notice and reporting requirements
Funds available to the Department of Defense for the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2018 shall be subject to the conditions contained in subsections (b) through (g) of section 1513 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–181
; 122 Stat. 428), as amended by section 1531(b) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4424).
(b)
Equipment disposition
(1)
Acceptance of certain equipment
Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is procured using amounts in the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund authorized under this Act and is intended for transfer to the security forces of Afghanistan, but is not accepted by such security forces.
(2)
Conditions on acceptance of equipment
Before accepting any equipment under the authority provided by paragraph (1), the Commander of United States forces in Afghanistan shall make a determination that the equipment was procured for the purpose of meeting requirements of the security forces of Afghanistan, as agreed to by both the Government of Afghanistan and the United States, but is no longer required by such security forces or was damaged before transfer to such security forces.
(3)
Elements of determination
In making a determination under paragraph (2) regarding equipment, the Commander of United States forces in Afghanistan shall consider alternatives to Secretary of Defense acceptance of the equipment. An explanation of each determination, including the basis for the determination and the alternatives considered, shall be included in the relevant quarterly report required under paragraph (5).
(4)
Treatment as Department of Defense stocks
Equipment accepted under the authority provided by paragraph (1) may be treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon notification to the congressional defense committees of such treatment.
(5)
Quarterly reports on equipment disposition
(A)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and every 90-day period thereafter during which the authority provided by paragraph (1) is exercised, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing the equipment accepted during the period covered by such report under the following:
(i)
This subsection.
(ii)
Section 1521(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2575).
(iii)
Section 1531(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 1088).
(iv)
Section 1532(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3613).
(v)
Section 1531(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (
Public Law 113–66
; 127 Stat. 938;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note).
(B)
Elements
Each report under subparagraph (A) shall include a list of all equipment that was accepted during the period covered by the report and treated as stocks of the Department of Defense and copies of the determinations made under paragraph (2), as required by paragraph (3).
(c)
Security of Afghan women
(1)
In general
Of the funds available to the Department of Defense for the Afghan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2018, it is the goal that $25,000,000, but in no event less than $10,000,000, shall be used for—
(A)
the recruitment, integration, retention, training, and treatment of women in the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces; and
(B)
the recruitment, training, and contracting of female security personnel for future elections.
(2)
Types of programs and activities
Such programs and activities may include—
(A)
efforts to recruit women into the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, including the special operations forces;
(B)
programs and activities of the Afghan Ministry of Defense Directorate of Human Rights and Gender Integration and the Afghan Ministry of Interior Office of Human Rights, Gender and Child Rights;
(C)
development and dissemination of gender and human rights educational and training materials and programs within the Afghan Ministry of Defense and the Afghan Ministry of Interior;
(D)
efforts to address harassment and violence against women within the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces;
(E)
improvements to infrastructure that address the requirements of women serving in the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, including appropriate equipment for female security and police forces, and transportation for policewomen to their station;
(F)
support for Afghanistan National Police Family Response Units; and
(G)
security provisions for high-profile female police and army officers.
(d)
Inspector General oversight of Fund
(1)
Quality standards for IG products
Except as provided in paragraph (3), each product published or issued by an Inspector General relating to the oversight of programs and activities funded under the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund shall be prepared—
(A)
in accordance with the Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards/Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS/GAS), as issued and updated by the Government Accountability Office; or
(B)
if not prepared in accordance with the standards referred to in subparagraph (A), in accordance with the Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation issued by the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (commonly referred to as the
CIGIE Blue Book
).
(2)
Specification of quality standards followed
Each product published or issued by an Inspector General relating to the oversight of programs and activities funded under the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund shall cite within such product the quality standards followed in conducting and reporting the work concerned.
(3)
Waiver
The Lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom’s Sentinel may waive the applicability of paragraph (1) to a specific product relating to the oversight by an Inspector General of activities and programs funded under the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund if the Lead Inspector General determines that the waiver would facilitate timely efforts to promote efficiency and effectiveness and prevent, detect, and deter fraud, waste, and abuse. Any product published or issued pursuant to a waiver under this paragraph shall include a statement that work for such product was not conducted in accordance with the standards referred to in paragraph (1) and an explanation why such standards were not employed.
XVI
STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS
A
Space Activities
1601.
Air Force Space Command
(a)
In general
Chapter 135
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2279c.
Air Force Space Command
(a)
In general
The head of the Air Force Space Command shall be the Commander of the Air Force Space Command, who shall be appointed in accordance with section 601 of this title.
(b)
Term
The Commander shall be appointed to serve a term of six years, and the Secretary of Defense may—
(1)
terminate, or propose to extend for a period of four years, the term of the appointment of the Commander; or
(2)
propose to promote the individual serving as the Commander during that term of appointment.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2279b the following new item:
2279c. Air Force Space Command.
.
1602.
Air Force space contractor responsibility watch list
(a)
In general
The Commander of the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center shall establish and maintain a watch list of contractors with a history of poor performance on space procurement or research, development, test, and evaluation program contracts.
(b)
Basis for inclusion on list
(1)
In general
The Commander of the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center may place a contractor on the watch list established under subsection (a) upon determining that the ability of the contractor to perform Air Force space contracts has been called into question by any of the following issues:
(A)
Poor performance or award fee scores below 50 percent.
(B)
Financial concerns.
(C)
Felony convictions or civil judgements.
(D)
Security or foreign ownership and control issues.
(2)
Discretion of the commander
The Commander of the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center shall be responsible for determining which contractors to place on the watch list, whether an entire company or a specific division should be included, and when to remove a contractor from the list.
(c)
Effect of listing
(1)
Prime contracts
The Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center may not solicit an offer from, award a contract to, execute an engineering change proposal with, or exercise an option on any Air Force space program with a contractor included on the list established under subsection (a) without the prior approval of the Commander of the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center.
(2)
Subcontracts
A prime contractor on a Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center contract may not enter into a subcontract valued in excess of $3,000,000 or 5 percent of the prime contract value with a contractor included on the watch list established under subsection (a) without the prior approval of the Commander of the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center.
(d)
Request for removal from list
A contractor may submit to the Commander a written request for removal from the watch list, including evidence that the contractor has resolved the issue that was the basis for inclusion on the list.
(e)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the suspension or debarment of a contractor, but inclusion on the watch list shall not be construed as a punitive measure or de facto suspension or debarment of a contractor.
1603.
Presidential National Voice Conferencing System
(a)
Consolidation of elements
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, all program elements and funding for the Presidential National Voice Conferencing System (PNVC) shall be transferred to the Program Executive Office with responsibility for the Presidential National Voice Conferencing System.
(b)
Acquisition reporting
Commencing not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, any reporting on the acquisition of the Presidential National Voice Conferencing System shall comply with reporting guidelines for an Acquisition Category 1 (ACAT 1) system.
1604.
Limitation on use of funds for Delta IV launch vehicle
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 or any fiscal year thereafter for the Air Force may be obligated to maintain infrastructure, system engineering, critical skills, base and range support, depreciation, or sustainment commodities for the Delta IV launch vehicle until the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the congressional defense committees a certification that the Air Force plans to launch a satellite procured by the Air Force on a Delta IV launch vehicle during the 3-year period beginning on the date of the certification.
1605.
Policy of the United States with respect to classification of space as a combat domain
(a)
In general
It is the policy of the United States to develop, produce, field, and maintain an integrated system of assets in response to the increasingly contested nature of the space operating domain to—
(1)
ensure the resiliency of capabilities at every level of orbit in space;
(2)
deter or deny an attack on capabilities at every level of orbit in space; and
(3)
defend the territory of the United States, its allies, and its deployed forces across all operating domains.
(b)
Implementation
The United States shall implement the policy set forth in subsection (a)—
(1)
in accordance with the laws of the United States and the obligations of the United States under international agreements; and
(2)
with appropriate consultation, cooperation, and coproduction of assets with allies and partners of the United States.
1606.
Launch support and infrastructure modernization
(a)
In general
In support of the policy outlined in section 2273 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out a program to modernize infrastructure and improve support activities for processing and launch of United States national security space vehicles launching from Federal ranges.
(b)
Elements
The program required by this section shall include—
(1)
investments in infrastructure to improve operations at the Eastern and Western Ranges that may benefit all users, to enhance the overall capabilities of ranges, to improve safety, and to reduce the long term cost of operations and maintenance;
(2)
measures to normalize processes, systems, and products across the Eastern and Western ranges to minimize the burden on launch providers; and
(3)
improvements in transparency, flexibility, and, responsiveness for launch scheduling.
(c)
Consultation
In carrying out this program, the Secretary should consult with current and anticipated users of the Eastern and Western ranges.
(d)
Cooperation
In carrying out this section, the Secretary should consider partnerships authorized under section 2276 of title 10, United States Code.
(e)
Report
(1)
Report required
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the plan for the implementation of the launch support and infrastructure modernization program.
(2)
Elements
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
a description of plans and the resources needed to improve launch support infrastructure, utilities, support equipment, and range operations;
(B)
a description of plans to streamline and normalize processes, systems, and products at the Eastern and Western ranges, to ensure consistency for range users; and
(C)
recommendations for improving transparency, flexibility, and responsiveness in launch scheduling.
B
Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities
1611.
Extension of authority to engage in commercial activities as security for intelligence collection activities
The second sentence of section 431(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2020
.
C
Cyber Warfare, Cybersecurity, and Related Matters
1621.
Policy of the United States on cyberspace, cybersecurity, and cyber warfare
(a)
In general
It shall be the policy of the United States, with respect to matters pertaining to cyberspace, cybersecurity, and cyber warfare, that the United States should employ all instruments of national power, including the use of offensive cyber capabilities, to deter if possible, and respond when necessary, to any and all cyber attacks or other malicious cyber activities that target United States interests with the intent to—
(1)
cause casualties among United States persons or persons of our allies;
(2)
significantly disrupt the normal functioning of United States democratic society or government (including attacks against critical infrastructure that could damage systems used to provide key services to the public or government);
(3)
threaten the command and control of the United States Armed Forces, the freedom of maneuver of the United States Armed Forces, or the industrial base or other infrastructure on which the United States Armed Forces rely to defend United States interests and commitments; or
(4)
achieve an effect, whether individually or in aggregate, comparable to an armed attack or imperil a vital interest of the United States.
(b)
Response options
In carrying out the policy set forth in subsection (a), the United States shall plan, develop, and demonstrate response options to address the full range of potential cyber attacks on United States interests that could be conducted by potential adversaries of the United States.
(c)
Denial options
In carrying out the policy set forth in subsection (a) through response options developed pursuant to subsection (b), the United States shall, to the greatest extent practicable, prioritize the defensibility and resiliency against cyber attacks and malicious cyber activities described in subsection (a) of infrastructure critical to the political integrity, economic security, and national security of the United States.
(d)
Cost-imposition options
In carrying out the policy set forth in subsection (a) through response options developed pursuant to subsection (b), the United States shall develop and demonstrate, or otherwise make known to adversaries of the existence of, cyber capabilities to impose costs on any foreign power targeting the United States or United States persons with a cyber attack or malicious cyber activity described in subsection (a).
(e)
Multi-prong response
In carrying out the policy set forth in subsection (a) through response options developed pursuant to subsection (b), the United States shall—
(1)
devote immediate and sustained attention to boosting the cyber resilience of critical United States strike systems (including cyber, nuclear, and non-nuclear systems) in order to ensure the United States can credibly threaten to impose unacceptable costs in response to even the most sophisticated large-scale cyber attack;
(2)
develop offensive cyber capabilities and specific plans and strategies to put at risk targets most valued by adversaries of the United States and their key decision makers;
(3)
enhance attribution capabilities to reduce the time required to positively attribute an attack with high confidence; and
(4)
develop intelligence and offensive cyber capabilities to detect, disrupt, and potentially expose malicious cyber activities.
(f)
Policies relating to offensive cyber capabilities and sovereignty
It is the policy of the United States that, when a cyber attack or malicious cyber activity transits or otherwise relies upon the networks or infrastructure of a third country—
(1)
the United States shall, to the greatest extent practicable, notify and encourage the government of that country to take action to eliminate the threat; and
(2)
if the government is unable or unwilling to take action, the United States reserves the right to act unilaterally (with the consent of that government if possible, but without such consent if necessary).
(g)
Authority of Secretary of Defense
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense has the authority to develop, prepare, coordinate, and, when appropriately authorized to do so, conduct military cyber operations in response to cyber attacks and malicious cyber activities described in subsection (a) that are carried out against the United States or United States persons by a foreign power.
(2)
Delegation of additional authorities
The Secretary may delegate to the Commander of the United States Cyber Command such authorities of the Secretaries of the military departments, including authorities relating to manning, training, and equipping, that the Secretary considers appropriate.
(3)
Use of delegated authorities
The use by the Commander of the United States Cyber Command of any authority delegated to the Commander pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary.
(4)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to limit the authority of the President or Congress to authorize the use of military force.
(h)
Foreign power defined
In this section, the term
foreign power
has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (
50 U.S.C. 1801
).
1622.
Cyber posture review
(a)
Requirement for comprehensive review
In order to clarify United States cyber deterrence policy and strategy for the near term, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a comprehensive review of the cyber posture of the United States for the next 5 to 10 years. The Secretary shall conduct the review in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of State.
(b)
Elements of review
The cyber posture review shall include the following elements:
(1)
The role of cyber forces in United States military strategy, planning, and programming.
(2)
A declaratory policy relating to United States responses to cyber attack and use of offensive cyber capabilities, guidance for the employment of offensive cyber capabilities, a public affairs plan, and an engagement plan for adversaries and allies.
(3)
Proposed norms for the conduct of offensive cyber operations in crisis and conflict.
(4)
Guidance for the development of cyber deterrence campaign plans focused on key leadership of Russia, China, Iran, North Korea, and any other country the Secretary determines appropriate.
(5)
Examination through analysis and gaming of escalation dynamics in various scenarios, as well as the spiral escalatory effects of countries developing increasingly potent offensive cyber capabilities, and what steps should be undertaken to bolster stability in cyberspace and more broadly stability between major powers.
(6)
A certification of whether sufficient personnel are trained and equipped to meet validated cyber requirements.
(7)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(c)
Report to congress
Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress, in unclassified and classified forms as necessary, a report on the results of the cyber posture review conducted under this section.
(d)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the United States should respond to all cyber attacks and to all significant cyber intrusions by imposing costs on those responsible that exceed any benefit that the attacker or intruder may have hoped to gain.
1623.
Modification and clarification of requirements and authorities relating to establishment of unified
combatant command
for cyber operations
(a)
Deadline for establishment
Before the Cyber Mission Force reaches full operational capability, the President shall establish the unified combatant command for cyber operations forces pursuant to section 167b(a) of title 10, United State Code.
(b)
Clarification of functions
Subsection (a) of section 167b of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking the second sentence;
(2)
by inserting
(1)
before
With the
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
The principal functions of the cyber command are as follows:
(A)
To execute cyber operations.
(B)
To prepare cyber operations forces to carry out assigned missions.
.
(c)
Modification of assignment of forces
Subsection (b) of such section is amended by striking
stationed in the United States
.
(d)
Modification of command of activity or mission
Subsection (d) of such section is amended to read as follows:
(d)
Command of activity or mission
The commander of the cyber command shall execute and exercise command of cyberspace operations and coordinate with the affected commanders of the unified combatant commands, unless otherwise directed by the President or the Secretary of Defense.
.
(e)
Modification of authority of combatant commander
Subsection (e)(2)(A) of such section is amended—
(1)
in clause (iii)—
(A)
in subclause (I), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in subclause (II), by striking
assigned to unified combatant commands
;
(C)
by redesignating subclause (II) as subclause (III); and
(D)
by inserting after subclause (I) the following new subclause (II):
(II)
for development and acquisition of joint cyber capabilities; and
;
(2)
in clause (iv), by striking
joint
and inserting
cyber operations
; and
(3)
in clause (v), by striking
commissioned and noncommissioned officers
and inserting
cyber operations forces
.
1624.
Annual assessment of cyber resiliency of nuclear command and control system
(a)
In general
Chapter 24
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
499.
Annual assessment of cyber resiliency of nuclear command and control system
(a)
In general
Not less frequently than annually, the Commander of the United States Strategic Command and the Commander of the United States Cyber Command (in this section referred to collectively as the
Commanders
) shall jointly conduct an assessment of the cyber resiliency of the nuclear command and control system.
(b)
Elements
In conducting the assessment required by subsection (a), the Commanders shall—
(1)
conduct an assessment of the sufficiency and resiliency of the nuclear command and control system to operate through a cyber attack from the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, or any other country or entity the Commanders identify as a potential threat; and
(2)
develop recommendations for mitigating any concerns of the Commanders resulting from the assessment.
(c)
Report required
(1)
The Commanders shall jointly submit to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, for submission to the Council on Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System established under section 171a of this title (in this section referred to as the
Council
), a report on the assessment required by subsection (a) that includes the following:
(A)
The recommendations developed under subsection (b)(2).
(B)
A statement of the degree of confidence of each of the Commanders in the mission assurance of the nuclear deterrent against a top tier cyber threat.
(C)
A detailed description of the approach used to conduct the assessment required by subsection (a) and the technical basis of conclusions reached in conducting that assessment.
(D)
Any other comments of the Commanders.
(2)
The Council shall submit to the Secretary of Defense the report required by paragraph (1) and any comments of the Council on the report.
(3)
The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees the report required by paragraph (1), any comments of the Council on the report under paragraph (2), and any comments of the Secretary on the report.
(d)
Termination
This section shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for chapter 24 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 498 the following new item:
499. Annual assessment of cyber resiliency of nuclear command and control system.
.
1625.
Strategic Cybersecurity Program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a program to be known as the
Strategic Cybersecurity Program
or
SCP
(in this section referred to as the
Program
).
(b)
Elements
The Program shall be comprised of personnel assigned to the Program by the Secretary from among personnel, including regular and reserve members of the Armed Forces, civilian employees of the Department, and personnel of the research laboratories of the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy, who have particular expertise in the responsibility to be discharged by the Program. Any personnel assigned to the Program from among personnel of the Department of Energy shall be so assigned with the concurrence of the Secretary of Energy.
(c)
Responsibility
(1)
In general
The responsibility of the Program shall be to carry out activities (commonly referred to as
red-teaming
) to continuously assess the information assurance and improve the overall effectiveness of the following of the United States Government:
(A)
Offensive cyber systems.
(B)
Long-range strike systems.
(C)
Nuclear deterrent systems.
(D)
National security systems.
(E)
Critical infrastructure of the Department of Defense (as that term is defined in section 1650(f)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–329
)).
(2)
Scope of responsibility
In carrying out its activities, the Program shall carry out appropriate reviews of current systems and infrastructure and acquisition plans for proposed systems and infrastructure. The review of an acquisition plan for any proposed system or infrastructure shall be carried out before Milestone B approval for such system or infrastructure.
(3)
Results of reviews
The results of each review carried out by the Program pursuant to paragraph (2), including any remedial action recommended by the Program pursuant to such review, shall be made available to any agencies or organizations of the Department involved in the development, procurement, operation, or maintenance of the system or infrastructure concerned.
(d)
Reports
The Director of the National Security Agency shall submit to the Secretary of Defense and the congressional defense committees on a quarterly basis a report on the activities of the Program during the preceding calendar quarter. Each report shall include the following:
(1)
A description of the activities of the Program during the calendar quarter covered by such report.
(2)
A description of particular challenges encountered in the course of the activities of the Program during such calendar quarter, and of actions taken to address such challenges.
(3)
A description of the current plans of the Program for additional activities.
(e)
Funding
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, by section 301 and available for the Information Systems Security Program as specified in the funding table in section 4301, up to $100,000,000 may be available for the Strategic Cybersecurity Program and its activities in fiscal year 2018.
(f)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the activities conducted under the Program should address the most critical systems of the Department of Defense and should supplement, not supplant, the Cyber Protection Teams of the Department of Defense.
1626.
Evaluation of agile acquisition of cyber tools and applications
(a)
Evaluation required
The Commander of the United States Cyber Command shall conduct an evaluation of alternative methods for developing, acquiring, and maintaining software-based cyber tools and applications for the United States Cyber Command, the Army Cyber Command, the Fleet Cyber Command, the Air Forces Cyber Command, and the Marine Corps Cyberspace Command.
(b)
Goal
The goal of the evaluation required by subsection (a) is to identify a set of practices that will—
(1)
increase the speed of development of cyber capabilities of the Armed Forces;
(2)
provide more effective tools and capabilities for developing, acquiring, and maintaining cyber tools and applications; and
(3)
create a repeatable, disciplined process for developing, acquiring, and maintaining cyber tools and applications whereby progress and success or failure can be continuously measured.
(c)
Consideration of agile software development, agile acquisition, and other best practices
(1)
In general
The evaluation required by subsection (a) shall include consideration of agile software development, agile acquisition, and such other similar best practices of commercial industry.
(2)
Considerations
In carrying out the evaluation required by subsection (a), the Commander shall assess requirements for implementing the practices described in paragraph (1), consider changes that would be necessary to established acquisition practices, including the following:
(A)
The requirements process.
(B)
Contracting.
(C)
Testing.
(D)
User involvement in the development process.
(E)
Program management.
(F)
Milestone reviews and approvals.
(G)
The definitions of
research and development
,
procurement
, and
sustainment
.
(H)
The constraints of current appropriations account definitions.
(d)
Assessment of training and education requirements
In carrying out the evaluation required by subsection (a), the Commander shall assess training and education requirements for personnel in all areas and at all levels of management relevant to the successful adoption of new acquisition models and methods for developing, acquiring, and maintaining cyber tools and applications as described in such subsection.
(e)
Services and expertise
In conducting the evaluation required by subsection (a), the Commander shall—
(1)
obtain services and expertise from—
(A)
the Defense Digital Service; and
(B)
federally funded research and development centers, such as the Software Engineering Institute and the MITRE Corporation; and
(2)
consult with such commercial software companies as the Commander considers appropriate to learn about commercial best practices.
(f)
Recommendations
(1)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander shall submit to the Secretary of Defense recommendations for experimenting with or adopting new acquisition methods, including all aspects of implementation necessary for the success of the recommended methods.
(2)
Congressional briefing
Not later than 14 days after submitting recommendations to the Secretary under paragraph (1), the Commander shall brief the congressional defense committees on the recommendations the Commander submitted under paragraph (1).
(g)
Preservation of existing authority
The evaluation required under subsection (a) is intended to inform future acquisition approaches. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or impede the exercising of the acquisition authority of the Commander of United States Cyber Command under section 807 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2224
note).
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
agile acquisition
means acquisition pursuant to a methodology for delivering multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for operational use, evaluation, and feedback. The incremental development and fielding of capabilities, commonly called
spirals
,
spins
, or
sprints
, can be measured in a few weeks or months, and involve continuous participation and collaboration by users, testers, and requirements authorities.
(2)
The term
agile development
means development pursuant to a set of software development methodologies based on iterative development, in which requirements and solutions evolve through collaboration between self-organizing cross-functional teams.
1627.
Report on cost implications of terminating dual-hat arrangement for Commander of United States
Cyber Command
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander of the United States Cyber Command shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that identifies the costs that would be implicated by meeting the conditions set forth in section 1642(b)(2)(C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
).
1628.
Modification of Information Assurance Scholarship Program
(a)
Designation of program
Section 2200a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(h)
Designation of program
A program under which the Secretary provides financial assistance under subsection (a) shall be known as the
Department of Defense Cybersecurity Scholarship Program
.
.
(b)
Allocation of funding
Subsection (f) of such section is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
before
Not less
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
Not less than five percent of the amount available for financial assistance under this section for a fiscal year shall be available for providing financial assistance for the pursuit of an associate degree.
.
(c)
Reinvigoration plan required
Not later than September 30, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for reinvigorating the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program authorized under section 2200a of such title, as amended by subsections (a) and (b).
1629.
Measuring compliance of components of Department of Defense with cybersecurity requirements for
securing industrial control systems
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall make such changes to the scorecard as are necessary to ensure that the Secretary measures each component of the Department of Defense in its progress towards securing the industrial control systems of the Department against cyber threats, including supervisory control and data acquisition systems (SCADA), distributed control systems (DCS), programmable logic controllers (PLC), and platform information technology (PIT).
(b)
Scorecard defined
In this section, the term
scorecard
means the Department of Defense Cyber Scorecard for the measuring of the performance of components of the Department against basic cybersecurity requirements as outlined in the Department of Defense Cybersecurity Discipline Implementation Plan.
1630.
Exercise on assessing cybersecurity support to election systems of States
(a)
Inclusion of cyber vulnerabilities in election systems in Cyber Guard Exercises
The Secretary of Defense shall incorporate the cybersecurity of elections systems of the States as a component of the Cyber Guard Exercise.
(b)
Report on best practices
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the capabilities, readiness, and best practices of the National Guard to assist the Governors, if called upon, to defend elections systems from cyberattacks.
1630A.
Report on various approaches to cyber deterrence
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on various approaches to cyber deterrence.
(b)
Contents
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Identification, definition, and explanation of the various theoretical approaches to cyber deterrence.
(2)
An assessment of the relative strengths and weaknesses of each of such approaches relative to the threat and relative to one another.
(3)
A recommendation for a cyber deterrence theory and doctrine for the Armed Forces.
(4)
An alternative analysis or dissenting view of the recommendation included under paragraph (3) that explains the weaknesses of the recommended theory and doctrine and offers an alternative theory or doctrine.
(c)
Consultation
In preparing the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with experts from the Government, industry, and academia.
1630B.
Prohibition on use of software platforms developed by Kaspersky Lab
(a)
Prohibition
No department, agency, organization, or other element of the Department of Defense may use, whether directly or through work with or on behalf of another organization or element of the Department or another department or agency of the United States Government, any software platform developed, in whole or in part, by Kaspersky Lab or any entity of which Kaspersky Lab has a majority ownership.
(b)
Severance of network connections
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that any network connection between a department, agency, organization, or other element of the Department of Defense and a department or agency of the United States Government that is using or hosting on its networks a software platform described in subsection (a) is immediately severed.
(c)
Effective date
This section shall take effect on October 1, 2018.
D
Nuclear Forces
1631.
Collection, storage, and sharing of data relating to nuclear security enterprise
(a)
In general
Chapter 24
of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 1624, is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
499a.
Collection, storage, and sharing of data relating to nuclear security enterprise
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, and the Administrator for Nuclear Security, acting through the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation, shall jointly collect and store cost, programmatic, and technical data relating to programs and projects of the nuclear security enterprise.
(b)
Sharing of data
If the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation or the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation requests data relating to programs or projects from any element of the Department of Defense or from any element of the nuclear security enterprise of the National Nuclear Security Administration, that element shall provide that data in a timely manner.
(c)
Storage of data
(1)
In general
Data collected by the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation and the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation under this section shall be—
(A)
stored in the data storage system of the Defense Cost and Resource Center or in a data storage system of the National Nuclear Security Administration that is equivalent to the data storage system of the Defense Cost and Resource Center; and
(B)
made accessible to other Federal agencies as such Directors consider appropriate.
(2)
Availability of resources
The Secretary and the Administrator shall ensure that the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation and the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation have sufficient information system support, as determined by such Directors, to facilitate the timely hosting, handling, and sharing of data relating to programs and projects of the nuclear security enterprise under this section at the appropriate level of classification.
(3)
Coordination with Office of Naval Reactors
The Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors of the National Nuclear Security Administration shall coordinate with the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation and the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation to ensure that data relating to programs and projects of the Office of Naval Reactors are correctly represented in the data storage system of the Defense Cost and Resource Center and the data storage system of the National Nuclear Security Administration described in paragraph (1)(A).
(d)
Contract requirements
The Secretary and the Administrator shall ensure that any contract relating to a program or project of the nuclear security enterprise that is entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this section includes—
(1)
requirements and standards for data collection; and
(2)
requirements for reporting on cost, programmatic, and technical data using procedures, standards, and formats approved by the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation and the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation.
(e)
Nuclear security enterprise defined
In this section, the term
nuclear security enterprise
has the meaning given that term in section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2501
).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for chapter 24 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 499, as added by section 1624, the following new item:
499a. Collection, storage, and sharing of data relating to nuclear security enterprise.
.
1632.
Establishment of procedures for implementation of Nuclear Enterprise Review
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue a final Department of Defense Instruction establishing procedures for the long-term implementation of the recommendations contained in the Independent Review of the Department of Defense Nuclear Enterprise, dated June 2, 2014.
(b)
Submission to Congress
The Secretary shall submit the final instruction required by subsection (a) to the congressional defense committees not later than 30 days after issuing the instruction.
(c)
Review by Government Accountability Office
Not later than 90 days after the Secretary issues the final instruction required by subsection (a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report reviewing the instruction for its consistency with the recommendations contained in the report of the Government Accountability Office entitled,
Defense Nuclear Enterprise: DOD has Established Processes for Implementing and Tracking Recommendations to Improve Leadership Morale and Operations
, dated July 14, 2016 (GAO–16–957R).
1633.
Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental ballistic missiles
(a)
Availability of funds
Notwithstanding section 1502(a) of title 31, United States Code, of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 by section 101 and available for Missile Procurement, Air Force, as specified in the funding table in section 4101, $6,334,000 shall be available for the procurement of covered parts pursuant to contracts entered into under section 1645(a) of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3651).
(b)
Covered parts defined
In this section, the term
covered parts
means commercially available off-the-shelf items as defined in section 104 of title 41, United States Code.
1634.
Execution and programmatic oversight of nuclear command, control, and communications programs
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, as Executive Secretary of the Council on Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System established under section 171a of title 10, United States Code (or a successor to the Chief Information Officer assigned responsibility for policy, oversight, guidance, and coordination for nuclear command and control systems), shall, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, develop a database relating to the execution of all nuclear command, control, and communications acquisition programs of the Department of Defense with an approved Materiel Development Decision. The database shall be updated not less frequently than annually and upon completion of a major program element of such a program.
(b)
Database elements
The database required by subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the following elements for each program described in that subsection, consistent with Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02:
(1)
Projected dates for Milestones A, B and C, including cost thresholds and objectives for major elements of life cycle cost.
(2)
Projected dates for program design reviews and critical design reviews.
(3)
Projected dates for developmental and operation tests.
(4)
Projected dates for initial operational capability and final operational capability.
(5)
An acquisition program baseline.
(6)
Program acquisition unit cost and average procurement unit cost.
(7)
Contract type.
(8)
Key performance parameters.
(9)
Key system attributes.
(10)
A risk register.
(11)
Technology readiness levels.
(12)
Manufacturing readiness levels.
(13)
Integration readiness levels.
(14)
Any other critical elements that affect the stability of the program.
(c)
Briefings
The co-chairs of the Council on Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System shall brief the congressional defense committees on the status of the database required by subsection (a)—
(1)
not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2)
upon completion of the database.
1635.
Measures in response to noncompliance of the Russian Federation with its obligations under the INF
Treaty
(a)
Statement of United States policy
It is the policy of the United States that, for so long as the Russian Federation remains in noncompliance with the INF Treaty, the United States should take actions to bring the Russian Federation back into compliance, including—
(1)
providing additional funds for the activities and systems identified in section 1243(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 1062); and
(2)
the establishment of a research and development program for a dual-capable road-mobile ground-launched missile system with a maximum range of 5,500 kilometers.
(b)
Report required
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the cost and schedule for, and feasibility of, modifying United States missile systems in existence as of such date of enactment for ground launch with a range of between 500 and 5,500 kilometers, including the Tomahawk Cruise Missile, the Standard Missile-3, the Standard Missile-6, the Long-Range Stand-Off Cruise Missile, and the Army Tactical Missile System, as compared with the cost and schedule for, and feasibility of, developing a new ground-launched missile using new technology with the same range.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for a research and development program for a dual-capable road-mobile ground-launched missile system with a maximum range of 5,500 kilometers may be obligated or expended until the report required by subsection (b) is received by the congressional defense committees.
(d)
INF Treaty defined
In this section, the term
INF Treaty
means the Treaty between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Elimination of their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, signed at Washington December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
1636.
Certification that the Nuclear Posture Review addresses deterrent effect and operation of United
States
nuclear forces in current and future security environments
(a)
Findings
Congress finds that, between the publication of the Nuclear Posture Review in 2010 and the date of the enactment of this Act—
(1)
North Korea has—
(A)
conducted at least three nuclear tests;
(B)
tested missiles that may be capable of reaching United States territory in the Pacific Ocean; and
(C)
continued to develop a missile that could strike targets in the United States homeland;
(2)
the Russian Federation has—
(A)
not complied with either the spirit or the letter of bilateral treaties with the United States related to nuclear weapons;
(B)
continued to expand and diversify its arsenal of non-strategic nuclear weapons;
(C)
threatened to add allies of the United States hosting missile defense shields to its list of nuclear targets; and
(D)
demonstrated willful disregard for the sovereign territory of a neighboring country;
(3)
Iran has—
(A)
according to the International Atomic Energy Agency, exceeded limits on sensitive materials under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, agreed to at Vienna on July 14, 2015, by Iran and by the People’s Republic of China, France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, and the United States; and
(B)
continued to advance a ballistic missile program that has been condemned by the United Nations;
(4)
the People's Republic of China has—
(A)
built up military outposts on artificial islands in the South China Sea;
(B)
mass-produced missiles capable of striking United States aircraft carriers and military installations in the Pacific;
(C)
expanded its delivery systems to include ballistic missile submarines, which can hold the United States homeland at risk and potentially can destabilize the strategic stability of Southeast Asia; and
(D)
continued to test anti-satellite weapons, according to the Department of State; and
(5)
advances in technology and capabilities related to the cyber domain, applications of artificial intelligence, and space have further complicated the delicate balance of deterrence that has been in place since the Cold War.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
given the developments in the international security environment described in subsection (a), it is critical to the national security of the United States to maintain a nuclear force that is effective for both deterrence of adversaries and assurance of allies of the United States;
(2)
an effective force for deterrence and assurance should be flexible, in order to respond to different contingencies, as well as resilient, to operate as planned under stress; and
(3)
in order to do so, the United States should continue to pursue the timely modernization of all three legs of the nuclear triad, the Long-Range Stand-Off weapon, tactical nuclear capabilities, and nuclear command and control systems, as well as weapons and infrastructure maintained by the National Nuclear Security Administration.
(c)
Certification required
Not later than 30 days after completing the first Nuclear Posture Review after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a certification that the Nuclear Posture Review accounts for—
(1)
with respect to the nuclear capabilities of the United States as of such date of enactment—
(A)
the ability of such capabilities to deter adversaries of the United States that possess nuclear weapons or may possess such weapons in the future;
(B)
the ability of the United States to operate in a major regional conflict that involves nuclear weapons;
(C)
the ability and preparedness of forward-deployed members of the Armed Forces to operate in a nuclear environment; and
(D)
weapons, equipment, and training or conduct that would improve the abilities described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C);
(2)
with respect to the nuclear capabilities of the United States projected over the 10-year period beginning on such date of enactment—
(A)
the projected ability of such capabilities to deter adversaries of the United States that possess nuclear weapons or may possess such weapons in the future;
(B)
the projected ability of the United States to operate in a major regional conflict that involves nuclear weapons;
(C)
the projected ability and preparedness of forward-deployed members of the Armed Forces to operate in a nuclear environment; and
(D)
weapons, equipment, and training or conduct that would improve the abilities described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C); and
(3)
any actions that could be taken by the Secretary of Defense or the Administrator for Nuclear Security in the near and medium terms to decrease the risk posed by possible additional changes to the security environment related to nuclear weapons in the future.
(d)
Form of certification
The certification required by subsection (c) may be submitted to the congressional defense committees in classified form.
1637.
Plan to manage Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack Assessment System and multi-domain sensors
(a)
Plan required
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall develop a plan to manage the Air Force missile warning elements of the Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack Assessment System as a weapon system consistent with Air Force Policy Directive 10-9, entitled
Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems
and dated March 8, 2007.
(b)
Multi-domain sensor management and exploitation
(1)
In general
The plan required by subsection (a) shall include a long-term plan to manage all available sensors for multi-domain exploitation against modern and emergent threats in order to provide comprehensive support for integrated tactical warning and attack assessment, missile defense, and space situational awareness.
(2)
Coordination with other agencies
In developing the plan required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
coordinate with the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, and the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office; and
(B)
solicit comments on the plan, if any, from the Commander of the United States Strategic Command and the Commander of the United States Northern Command.
(c)
Submission to congress
Not later than 14 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees—
(1)
the plan required by subsection (a); and
(2)
the comments from the Commander of the United States Strategic Command and the Commander of the United States Northern Command, if any, on the plan required by subsection (b)(1).
1638.
Certification requirement with respect to strategic radiation hardened trusted foundry
Not later than December 31, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a certification that a strategic radiation hardened trusted foundry, consistent with Department of Defense Instruction 5200.44, is operational and capable of supplying necessary microelectronic components for necessary radiation environments involved with the acquisition of delivery systems for nuclear weapons.
1639.
Requirements for Nuclear Posture Review
(a)
Incorporation of stakeholder views
In preparing the Nuclear Posture Review, the Secretary of Defense shall fully incorporate input and views from all relevant stakeholders in the United States Government, including the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of State, the Administrator for Nuclear Security, and the heads of components of the Department of State, the Department of Energy, and the National Nuclear Security Administration with responsibility for negotiating and verifying compliance with international arms control initiatives.
(b)
Availability
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that—
(1)
the Nuclear Posture Review is submitted, in its entirety, to the President and the congressional defense committees; and
(2)
an unclassified version of the Nuclear Posture Review is made available to the public.
1640.
Sense of Congress on Nuclear Posture Review
It is the sense of Congress that the Nuclear Posture Review should—
(1)
take into account the obligations of the United States under treaties ratified by and with the advice and consent of the Senate; and
(2)
examine the tools required to sustain the stockpile stewardship program under section 4201 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2521
) in the future to ensure the safety, security, and effectiveness of the nuclear arsenal of the United States.
E
Missile Defense Programs
1651.
Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program
co-development and co-production
(a)
Iron Dome Short-range Rocket Defense System
(1)
Availability of funds
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency, not more than $92,000,000 may be provided to the Government of Israel to procure Tamir interceptors for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system through co-production of such interceptors in the United States by industry of the United States.
(2)
Conditions
(A)
Agreement
Funds described in paragraph (1) for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program shall be available subject to the terms and conditions in the Agreement Between the Department of Defense of the United States of America and the Ministry of Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron Dome Defense System Procurement, signed on March 5, 2014, as amended to include co-production for Tamir interceptors. In negotiations by the Missile Defense Agency and the Missile Defense Organization of the Government of Israel regarding such production, the goal of the United States is to maximize opportunities for co-production of the Tamir interceptors described in paragraph (1) in the United States by industry of the United States.
(B)
Certification
Not later than 30 days prior to the initial obligation of funds described in paragraph (1), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency and the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees—
(i)
a certification that the amended bilateral international agreement specified in subparagraph (A) is being implemented as provided in such agreement; and
(ii)
an assessment detailing any risks relating to the implementation of such agreement.
(b)
Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, David’s Sling Weapon System co-production
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency not more than $120,000,000 may be provided to the Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon System, including for co-production of parts and components in the United States by United States industry.
(2)
Certification
The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a certification that—
(A)
the Government of Israel has demonstrated the successful completion of the knowledge points, technical milestones, and production readiness reviews required by the research, development, and technology agreement and the bilateral co-production agreement for the David's Sling Weapon System;
(B)
funds specified in paragraph (1) will be provided on the basis of a one-for-one cash match made by Israel or in another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel); and
(C)
the level of co-production of parts, components, and all-up rounds (if appropriate) in the United States by United States industry for the David's Sling Weapon System is not less than 50 percent.
(c)
Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program co-production
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency not more than $120,000,000 may be provided to the Government of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program, including for co-production of parts and components in the United States by United States industry.
(2)
Limitation on funding
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated in paragraph (1) may be obligated or expended until 30 days after the successful completion of two flight tests at a test range in the United States to validate Arrow Weapon System capabilities and interoperability with ballistic missile system components of the United States.
(3)
Certification
(A)
Criteria
Except as provided by paragraph (4), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a certification that—
(i)
the Government of Israel has demonstrated the successful completion of the knowledge points, technical milestones, and production readiness reviews required by the research, development, and technology agreements for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Development Program;
(ii)
funds specified in paragraph (1) will be provided on the basis of a one-for-one cash match made by Israel or in another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel);
(iii)
the United States has entered into a bilateral international agreement with Israel that establishes, with respect to the use of such funds—
(I)
in accordance with clause (iv), the terms of co-production of parts and components on the basis of the greatest practicable co-production of parts, components, and all-up rounds (if appropriate) by United States industry and minimizes nonrecurring engineering and facilitization expenses to the costs needed for co-production;
(II)
complete transparency on the requirement of Israel for the number of interceptors and batteries that will be procured, including with respect to the procurement plans, acquisition strategy, and funding profiles of Israel;
(III)
technical milestones for co-production of parts and components and procurement;
(IV)
a joint affordability working group to consider cost reduction initiatives; and
(V)
joint approval processes for third-party sales; and
(iv)
the level of co-production described in clause (iii)(I) for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program is not less than 50 percent.
(4)
Waiver
The Under Secretary may waive the certification required by paragraph (3) if the Under Secretary certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the Under Secretary has received sufficient data from the Government of Israel to demonstrate—
(A)
the funds specified in paragraph (1) are provided to Israel solely for funding the procurement of long-lead components and critical hardware in accordance with a production plan, including a funding profile detailing Israeli contributions for production, including long-lead production, of the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program;
(B)
such long-lead components have successfully completed knowledge points, technical milestones, and production readiness reviews; and
(C)
the long-lead procurement will be conducted in a manner that maximizes co-production in the United States without incurring nonrecurring engineering activity or cost other than such activity or cost required for suppliers of the United States to start or restart production in the United States.
(d)
Number
In carrying out paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and paragraph (3) of subsection (c), the Under Secretary may submit—
(1)
one certification covering both the David's Sling Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; or
(2)
separate certifications for each respective system.
(e)
Timing
The Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees the certifications under paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and paragraph (3) of subsection (c) by not later than 60 days before the funds specified in paragraph (1) of subsections (b) and (c) for the respective system covered by the certification are provided to the Government of Israel.
(f)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the following:
(1)
The congressional defense committees.
(2)
The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
1652.
Development of persistent space-based sensor architecture
(a)
In general
Unless otherwise directed or recommended by the Ballistic Missile Defense Review (BMDR), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall develop, using sound acquisition practices, a highly reliable and cost-effective persistent space-based sensor architecture capable of supporting the ballistic missile defense system.
(b)
Testing and deployment
The Director shall ensure that the sensor architecture developed under subsection (a) is rigorously tested before final production decisions or operational deployment.
(c)
Functions
The sensor architecture developed under subsection (a) shall include one or more of the following functions:
(1)
Control of increased raid sizes.
(2)
Precision tracking of threat missiles.
(3)
Fire-control-quality tracks of evolving threat missiles.
(4)
Enabling of launch-on-remote and engage-on-remote capabilities.
(5)
Discrimination of warheads.
(6)
Effective kill assessment.
(7)
Enhanced shot doctrine.
(8)
Integration with the command, control, battle management, and communication program of the ballistic missile defense system.
(9)
Integration with all other elements of the current ballistic missile defense system, including the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, Aegis Ashore, and Patriot Air and Missile Defense Systems.
(10)
Such additional functions as determined by the Ballistic Missile Defense Review.
(d)
Cost estimates
Whenever the Director develops a cost estimate for the sensor architecture required by subsection (a), the Director shall use—
(1)
the cost-estimating and assessment guide of the Government Accountability Office entitled
GAO Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide
(GAO-09-3SP), or a successor guide; or
(2)
the most current operating and support cost-estimating guide of the Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation (CAPE).
1653.
Ground-based interceptor capacity and Fort Greely missile field infrastructure
requirements
(a)
Sense of the Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that it is the policy of the United States to maintain and improve, with the allies of the United States, an effective, robust layered missile defense system capable of defending the citizens of the United States residing in territories and States of the United States, allies of the United States, and deployed Armed Forces of the United States.
(b)
Increase in capacity
The Secretary of Defense shall, subject to the annual authorization of appropriations and the annual appropriation of funds for National Missile Defense, increase the number of United States ground-based interceptors, unless otherwise directed by the Ballistic Missile Defense Review, by up to 28.
(c)
Deployment
Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
execute any requisite construction to ensure that Missile Field 1 or Missile Field 2 at Fort Greely or alternative missile fields at Fort Greely which may be identified pursuant to subsection (c), are capable of supporting and sustaining additional ground-based interceptors;
(2)
deploy up to 14 additional ground-based interceptors to Missile Field 1 or an alternative missile field at Fort Greely as soon as technically feasible; and
(3)
identify a ground-based interceptor stockpile storage site for up to 14 ground-based interceptors.
(d)
Report
(1)
In general
Unless otherwise directed or recommended by the Ballistic Missile Defense Review (BMDR), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees, not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, a report on options to increase the capacity of the ground-based midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile defense system and the infrastructure requirements for increasing the number of ground-based interceptors at Fort Greely, Alaska.
(2)
Contents
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An identification of potential sites in the United States, whether existing or new on the East Coast or in the Midwest, for the deployment of up to 100 additional ground-based interceptors.
(B)
A cost-benefit analysis of each such site, including tactical, operational, and cost-to-construct considerations.
(C)
A description of any completed and outstanding environmental assessments or impact statements for each such site.
(D)
A description of the existing capacity of the missile fields at Fort Greely and the infrastructure requirements needed to increase the number of ground-based interceptors at Missile Field 1 and Missile Field 2 to 20 ground-based interceptors each.
(E)
A description of the additional infrastructure and components needed to further outfit such missile fields at Fort Greely before emplacing additional ground-based interceptors configured with the redesigned kill vehicle, including with respect to ground excavation, silos, utilities, and support equipment.
(F)
A cost estimate of such infrastructure and components.
(G)
An estimated schedule for completing such construction as may be required for such infrastructure and components.
(H)
An identification of any environmental assessments or impact studies that would need to be conducted to expand such missile fields at Fort Greely beyond current capacity.
(I)
An operational evaluation and cost analysis of the deployment of transportable ground-based interceptors, including an identification of potential sites, including in the eastern United States and at Vandenberg Air Force Base, and an examination of any environmental, legal, or tactical challenges associated with such deployments, including to any sites identified in subparagraph (A).
(J)
A determination of the appropriate fleet mix of ground-based interceptor kill vehicles and boosters to maximize overall system effectiveness and increase its capacity and capability, including the costs and benefits of continued inclusion of capability enhancement II (CE–II) Block 1 interceptors after the fielding of the redesigned kill vehicle.
(K)
A description of the planned improvements to homeland ballistic missile defense sensor and discrimination capabilities and an assessment of the expected operational benefits of such improvements to homeland ballistic missile defense.
(L)
The benefit of supplementing ground-based midcourse defense elements with other, more distributed, elements, including both Aegis ships and Aegis Ashore installations with Standard Missile-3 Block IIA and other interceptors in Hawaii and at other locations for homeland missile defense.
(3)
Form
The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
1654.
Sense of the Senate on the state of United States missile defense
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the Secretary of Defense should use the Ballistic Missile Defense Review (BMDR) to consider accelerating the development of technologies that will increase the capacity, capability, and reliability of the ground-based midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile defense system;
(2)
upon completion of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency should, to the extent practicable and with sound acquisition practices, accelerate the development, testing, and fielding of such capabilities as they are prioritized in the Ballistic Missile Defense Review, including the redesigned kill vehicle, the multi-object kill vehicle, the C3 booster, a space-based sensor layer, boost phase sensor and kill technologies, and additional ground-based interceptors; and
(3)
in order to achieve these objectives, and to avoid post-production and post-deployment problems, it is essential for the Department of Defense and the Missile Defense Agency to follow a
fly before you buy
approach to adequately test and assess the elements of the ballistic missile defense system before final production decisions or operational deployment.
1655.
Sense of the Senate and report on ground-based midcourse defense testing
(a)
Sense of the Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
at a minimum, the Missile Defense Agency should continue to flight test the ground-based midcourse defense element at least once each fiscal year;
(2)
the Department of Defense should allocate increased funding to homeland missile defense testing to ensure that our defenses continue to evolve faster than the threats against which they are postured to defend;
(3)
in order to rapidly innovate, develop, and field new technologies, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency should continue to focus testing campaigns on delivering increased capabilities to the Armed Forces as quickly as possible; and
(4)
the Director of the Missile Defense Agency should seek to establish a more prudent balance between risk mitigation and the more rapid testing pace needed to quickly develop and deliver new capabilities to the Armed Forces.
(b)
Report to Congress
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a revised missile defense testing campaign plan that accelerates the development and deployment of new missile defense technologies.
(2)
Contents
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A detailed analysis of the acceleration of each of following programs:
(i)
Redesigned kill vehicle.
(ii)
Multi-object kill vehicle.
(iii)
Configuration-3 Booster.
(iv)
Lasers mounted on small unmanned aerial vehicles.
(v)
Space-based missile defense sensor architecture.
(vi)
Such additional technologies as the Director considers appropriate.
(B)
A new deployment timeline for each of the programs in listed in subparagraph (A) or a detailed description of why the current timeline for deployment technologies under those programs is most suitable.
(C)
An identification of any funding or policy restrictions that would slow down the deployment of the technologies under the programs listed in subparagraph (A).
(D)
A risk assessment of the potential cost-overruns and deployment delays that may be encountered in the expedited development process of the capabilities under paragraph (1).
(c)
Report on funding profile
The Director shall include with the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the budget of the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2019 (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) a report on the funding profile necessary for the new testing campaign plan required by subsection (b)(1).
B
Military construction authorizations
2001.
Short title
This division may be cited as the
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018
.
2002.
Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be specified by law
(a)
Expiration of authorizations after five years
Except as provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI through XXVII for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later of—
(1)
October 1, 2022; or
(2)
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2023.
(b)
Exception
Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been obligated before the later of—
(1)
October 1, 2022; or
(2)
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for fiscal year 2023 for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program.
(c)
Extension of authorizations of fiscal year 2016 and fiscal year 2017 projects
(1)
Fiscal year 2016 projects
Section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 1145) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by striking
2018
and inserting
2020
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (2), by striking
2019
and inserting
2021
; and
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by striking
2018
and inserting
2020
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (2), by striking
2019
and inserting
2021
.
(2)
Fiscal year 2017 projects
Section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–328
; 129 Stat. 1145) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by striking
2019
and inserting
2021
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (2), by striking
2020
and inserting
2022
; and
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by striking
2019
and inserting
2021
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (2), by striking
2020
and inserting
2022
.
2003.
Effective date
Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect on the later of—
(1)
October 1, 2017; or
(2)
the date of the enactment of this Act.
XXI
Army military construction
2101.
Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Army: Inside the United States
State
Installation
Amount
Alabama
Fort Rucker
$38,000,000
Arizona
Davis-Monthan Air Force Base
$22,000,000
Fort Huachuca
$30,000,000
California
Fort Irwin
$3,000,000
Colorado
Fort Carson
$29,300,000
Florida
Eglin Air Force Base
$18,000,000
Georgia
Fort Benning
$38,800,000
Fort Gordon
$51,500,000
Hawaii
Pohakuloa Training Area
$25,000,000
Indiana
Crane Army Ammunition Plant
$24,000,000
New York
United States Military Academy
$22,000,000
South Carolina
Fort Jackson
$60,000,000
Shaw Air Force Base
$25,000,000
Texas
Camp Bullis
$13,600,000
Fort Hood
$70,000,000
Virginia
Joint Base Langley-Eustis
$34,000,000
Joint Base Myer-Henderson
$20,000,000
Washington
Yakima
$19,500,000
(b)
Outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out the military construction project for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Army: Outside the United States
Country
Installation
Amount
Germany
Stuttgart
$40,000,000
Weisbaden
$43,000,000
Korea
Kunsan Air Base
$53,000,000
Turkey
Various Locations
$6,400,000
(c)
Certification requirement for certain projects
The Secretary of the Army may not exercise the authority provided under subsection (a) with respect to the Fort Rucker, Alabama, or the Fort Benning, Georgia, projects set forth in the table under such subsection unless the Secretary of Defense, without delegation, certifies to the congressional defense committees that such project is essential for Army training.
2102.
Family housing
(a)
Construction and acquisition
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:
Army: Family Housing
State/Country
Installation or Location
Units
Amount
Georgia
Fort Gordon
Family Housing New Construction
$6,100,000
Germany
South Camp Vilseck
Family Housing New Construction
$22,445,000
Korea
Camp Humphreys
Family Housing New Construction
$34,402,000
Massachusetts
Natick
Family Housing Replacement Construction
$21,000,000
(b)
Planning and design
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to exceed $33,559,000.
2103.
Authorization of appropriations, Army
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b)
Limitation on total cost of construction projects
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
2104.
Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2014 project
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of
Public Law 113–66
; 127 Stat. 986) for Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Washington, for construction of an airfield operations complex, the Secretary of the Army may construct standby generator capacity of 1,000 kilowatts.
2105.
Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2015 project
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3670) for Fort Shafter, Hawaii, for construction of a command and control facility, the Secretary of the Army may construct 15 megawatts of redundant power generation for a total project amount of $370,000,000.
2106.
Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2014 project
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of
Public Law 113–66
; 127 Stat. 985), the authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (127 Stat. 986), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Army: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
Country
Location
Project
Amount
Japan
Kyoga-Misaki
Company Operations Complex
$33,000,000
2107.
Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (128 Stat. 3670), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Army: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
State/Country
Installation or Location
Project
Amount
California
Military Ocean Terminal Concord
Access Control Point
$9,900,000
Hawaii
Fort Shafter
Command and Control Facility (SCIF)
$370,000,000
Japan
Kadena Air Base
Missile Magazine
$10,600,000
Texas
Fort Hood
Simulation Center
$46,000,000
XXII
Navy military construction
2201.
Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Navy: Inside the United States
State
Installation
or Location
Amount
Arizona
Yuma
$36,358,000
California
Barstow
$36,539,000
Camp Pendleton
$61,139,000
Coronado
$36,000,000
Lemoore
$60,828,000
Miramar
$87,174,000
San Diego
$108,000,000
Twentynine Palms
$55,099,000
Florida
Mayport
$194,818,000
Georgia
Albany
$43,308,000
Hawaii
Kaneohe Bay
$45,512,000
Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam
$73,200,000
Wahiawa
$65,864,000
Maine
Kittery
$61,692,000
North Carolina
Camp Lejeune
$168,059,000
Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station
$15,671,000
Virginia
Dam Neck
$29,262,000
Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Story
$2,596,000
Portsmouth
$72,990,000
Quantico
$23,738,000
Yorktown
$36,358,000
Washington
Indian Island
$44,440,000
(b)
Outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installation or location outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Navy: Outside the United States
Country
Installation
or Location
Amount
Djibouti
Camp Lemonier
$13,390,000
Greece
Souda Bay
$22,045,000
Guam
Joint Region Marianas
$284,679,000
Japan
Iwakuni
$21,86,000
2202.
Family housing
(a)
Construction and acquisition
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may construct or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and supporting facilities) at the installation or location, in the number of units, and in the amount set forth in the following table:
Navy: Family Housing
State
Installation or Location
Units
Amount
Bahrain Island
Southwest Asia
Construction On-Base General and Flag Officers Quarters
$2,138,000
(b)
Planning and design
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to exceed $4,418,000.
2203.
Improvements to military family housing units
Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $36,251,000.
2204.
Authorization of appropriations, Navy
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b)
Limitation on total cost of construction projects
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
2205.
Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 projects
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of
Public Law 113–66
; 127 Stat. 985), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act (127 Stat. 989) and extended by section 2207 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2694), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Navy: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
State
Installation or Location
Project
Amount
Illinois
Great Lakes
Unaccompanied Housing
$35,851,000
Nevada
Fallon
Wastewater Treatment Plant
$11,334,000
Virginia
Quantico
Fuller Road Improvements
$9,013,000
2206.
Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act (128 Stat. 3675), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Navy: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
State
Installation
or Location
Project
Amount
District of Columbia
NSA Washington
Electronics Science and Technology Lab
$37,882,000
Maryland
Indian Head
Advanced Energetics Research Lab Complex Phase 2
$15,346,000
XXIII
Air Force military construction
2301.
Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air Force: Inside the United States
State
Installation
or Location
Amount
Alaska
Eielson Air Force Base
$168,900,000
Arkansas
Little Rock Air Force Base
$20,000,000
Colorado
Buckley Air Force Base
$38,000,000
Fort Carson
$13,000,000
U.S. Air Force Academy
$30,000,000
Florida
Eglin Air Force Base
$90,700,000
MacDill Air Force Base
$8,100,000
Tyndall Air Force Base
$17,000,000
Georgia
Robins Air Force Base
$9,800,000
Kansas
McConnell Air Force Base
$17,500,000
Maryland
Joint Base Andrews
$271,500,000
Nevada
Nellis Air Force Base
$61,000,000
New Mexico
Cannon Air Force Base
$42,000,000
Holloman Air Force Base
$4,250,000
Kirtland Air Force Base
$9,300,000
North Dakota
Minot Air Force Base
$27,000,000
Ohio
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
$6,800,000
Oklahoma
Altus Air Force Base
$20,900,000
Texas
Joint Base San Antonio
$156,630,000
Utah
Hill Air Force Base
$28,000,000
Wyoming
F.E. Warren Air Force Base
$62,000,000
(b)
Outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installation or location outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air Force: Outside the United States
Country
Installation
or Location
Amount
Australia
Darwin
$76,000,000
Italy
Aviano Air Base
$27,325,000
Qatar
Al Udeid
$15,000,000
Turkey
Incirlik Air Base
$25,997,000
United Kingdom
RAF Fairford
$45,650,000
RAF Lakenheath
$136,992,000
Worldwide Unspecified
Unspecified Worldwide Locations
$325,390,000
2302.
Family housing
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to exceed $4,445,000.
2303.
Improvements to military family housing units
Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $80,617,000.
2304.
Authorization of appropriations, Air Force
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b)
Limitation on total cost of construction projects
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
2305.
Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2017 projects
(a)
Hanscom Air Force Base
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2696) for Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts, for construction of a gate complex at the installation, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a visitor control center of 187 square meters, a traffic check house of 294 square meters, and an emergency power generator system and transfer switch consistent with the Air Force’s construction guidelines.
(b)
Mariana Islands
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2697) for acquiring 142 hectares of land at an unspecified location in the Mariana Islands, the Secretary of the Air Force may purchase 142 hectares of land on Tinian in the Northern Mariana Islands for a cost of $21,900,000.
(c)
Chabelley Airfield
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2902 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2743) for Chabelley Airfield, Djibouti, for construction of a parking apron and taxiway at that location, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct 20,490 square meters of taxiway and apron, 8,230 square meters of paved shoulders, 10,650 square meters of hangar pads, and 3,900 square meters of cargo apron.
(d)
Scott Air Force Base
The table in section 4601 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2877) is amended in the item relating to Scott Air Force Base, Illinois, by striking
Consolidated Corrosion Facility add/alter
in the project title column and inserting
Consolidated Communication Facility add/alter
.
2306.
Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301 of that Act (128 Stat. 3679), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Air Force: Extension of 2015 Project
Authorizations
State or
Country
Installation
or
Location
Project
Amount
Alaska
Clear Air Force Station
Emergency Power Plant Fuel Storage
$11,500,000
Oklahoma
Tinker Air Force Base
KC–46 Two-Bay Maintenance Hangar
$63,000,000
XXIV
Defense agencies military construction
2401.
Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
State
Installation or Location
Amount
California
Camp Pendleton
$43,642,000
Coronado
$258,735,000
Colorado
Schriever Air Force Base
$10,200,000
Florida
Eglin Air Force Base
$9,100,000
Hurlburt Field
$46,400,000
Georgia
Fort Gordon
$10,350,000
Hawaii
Kunia
$5,000,000
Missouri
Fort Leonard Wood
$261,941,000
St. Louis
$381,000,000
New Mexico
Cannon Air Force Base
$8,228,000
North Carolina
Camp Lejeune
$90,039,000
Fort Bragg
$57,778,000
Seymour Johnson Air Force Base
$20,000,000
South Carolina
Shaw Air Force Base
$22,900,000
Texas
Fort Bliss
$8,300,000
Utah
Hill Air Force Base
$20,000,000
Virginia
Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek - Story
$23,000,000
Norfolk
$18,500,000
Pentagon
$50,100,000
Portsmouth
$22,500,000
Worldwide Unspecified
Unspecified Worldwide Locations
$64,364,000
(b)
Outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
Country
Installation or Location
Amount
Germany
Spangdahlem Air Base
$79,141,000
Stuttgart
$46,609,000
Greece
Souda Bay
$18,100,000
Guam
Andersen Air Force Base
$23,900,000
Italy
Sigonella
$22,400,000
Vicenza
$62,406,000
Japan
Iwakuni
$30,800,000
Kadena Air Base
$27,573,000
Okinawa
$11,900,000
Sasebo
$45,600,000
Torii Commo Station
$25,323,000
Puerto Rico
Punta Borinquen
$61,071,000
United Kingdom
Menwith Hill Station
$11,000,000
2402.
Authorized energy conservation projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy conservation projects under
chapter 173
of title 10, United States Code, in the amount set forth in the table.
2403.
Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b)
Limitation on total cost of construction projects
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
2404.
Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2017 project
In the case of the authorization in the table in section 2401(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2700) for Kaiserslautern, Germany, for construction of the Sembach Elementary/Middle School Replacement, the Secretary of Defense may construct an elementary school.
2405.
Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 projects
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of
Public Law 113–66
; 127 Stat. 985), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401 of that Act (127 Stat. 995) and extended by section 2406 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2702), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Defense Agencies: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
State/Country
Installation or
Location
Project
Amount
United Kingdom
RAF Lakenheath
Lakenheath Middle/High School Replacement
$69,638,000
Virginia
Marine Corps Base Quantico
Quantico Middle/High School Replacement
$40,586,000
Pentagon
PFPA Support Operations Center
$14,800,000
2406.
Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401 of that Act (128 Stat. 3681), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Defense Agencies: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
State/Country
Installation or
Location
Project
Amount
Australia
Geraldton
Combined Communications Gateway Geraldton
$9,600,000
Belgium
Brussels
Brussels Elementary/High School Replacement
$41,626,000
Japan
Okinawa
Kubasaki High School Replacement/Renovation
$99,420,000
Sasebo
E.J. King High School Replacement/Renovation
$37,681,000
Mississippi
Stennis
SOF Land Acquisition Western Maneuver Area
$17,224,000
New Mexico
Cannon Air Force Base
SOF Squadron Operations Facility (STS)
$23,333,000
Virginia
Defense Distribution Depot Richmond
Replace Access Control Point
$5,700,000
Joint Base Langley-Eustis
Hospital Addition/Central Utility Plant Replacement
$41,200,000
Pentagon
Redundant Chilled Water Loop
$15,100,000
XXV
International programs
A
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program
2501.
Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects
The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously financed by the United States.
2502.
Authorization of appropriations, NATO
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2017, for contributions by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the share of the United States of the cost of projects for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program authorized by section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
B
Host country in-kind contributions
2511.
Republic of Korea funded construction projects
Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military construction projects for the installations or locations, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
Country
Component
Installation or Location
Project
Amount
Korea
Army
Camp Humphreys
Unaccompanied Enlisted Personnel Housing, Phase 1
$76,000,000
Army
Camp Humphreys
Type I Aircraft Parking Apron
$10,000,000
Air Force
Kunsan Air Base
Construct Airfield Damage Repair Warehouse
$6,500,000
Air Force
Osan Air Base
Main Gate Entry Control Facilities
$13,000,000
2512.
Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2017 projects
(a)
Camp Humphreys
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2511 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2704) for Camp Humphreys, Republic of Korea, for construction of the 8th Army Correctional Facility, the Secretary of Defense may construct a level 1 correctional facility of 26,000 square feet and a utility and tool storage building of 400 square feet.
(b)
K–16 air base
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2511 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2704) for the K–16 Air Base, Republic of Korea, for renovation of the Special Operations Forces (SOF) Operations Facility, B–606, the Secretary of Defense may renovate an operations administration area of 5,500 square meters.
XXVI
Guard and Reserve Forces facilities
A
Project authorizations and authorization of appropriations
2601.
Authorized Army National Guard construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Army National Guard
State
Location
Amount
Delaware
New Castle
$36,000,000
Idaho
Mission Training Center Gowen
$9,000,000
Orchard Training Area
$22,000,000
Iowa
Camp Dodge
$8,500,000
Kansas
Fort Leavenworth
$19,000,000
Maine
Presque Isle
$17,500,000
Maryland
Sykesville
$19,000,000
Minnesota
Arden Hills
$39,000,000
Missouri
Springfield
$32,000,000
New Mexico
Las Cruces
$8,600,000
Virginia
Fort Belvoir
$15,000,000
Fort Pickett
$4,550,000
Washington
Tumwater
$31,000,000
2602.
Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Army Reserve
State
Location
Amount
California
Fallbrook
$36,000,000
Delaware
Newark
$19,500,000
Ohio
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
$9,100,000
Puerto Rico
Aguadilla
$12,400,000
Washington
Joint Base Lewis-McChord
$30,000,000
Wisconsin
Fort McCoy
$13,000,000
2603.
Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
State
Location
Amount
California
Lemoore
$17,330,000
Georgia
Fort Gordon
$17,797,000
New Jersey
Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
$11,573,000
Texas
Fort Worth
$12,637,000
2604.
Authorized Air National Guard construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Air National Guard locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air National Guard
State
Location
Amount
California
March Air Force Base
$15,000,000
Colorado
Peterson Air Force Base
$8,000,000
Connecticut
Bradley IAP
$7,000,000
Indiana
Hulman Regional Airport
$8,000,000
Kentucky
Louisville IAP
$9,000,000
Mississippi
Jackson International Airport
$8,000,000
Missouri
Rosecrans Memorial Airport
$10,000,000
New York
Hancock Field
$6,800,000
Ohio
Toledo Express Airport
$15,000,000
Oklahoma
Tulsa International Airport
$8,000,000
Oregon
Klamath Falls IAP
$18,500,000
South Dakota
Joe Foss Field
$12,000,000
Tennessee
McGhee-Tyson Airport
$25,000,000
2605.
Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Locations inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air Force Reserve: Inside the United States
State
Location
Amount
Florida
Patrick Air Force Base
$25,000,000
Georgia
Robins Air Force Base
$32,000,000
Hawaii
Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam
$5,500,000
Utah
Hill Air Force Base
$3,100,000
Massachusetts
Westover Air Reserve Base
$61,100,000
Minnesota
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport
$9,000,000
North Carolina
Seymour Johnson Air Force Base
$6,400,000
Texas
Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth
$3,100,000
(b)
Locations outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve location outside the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:
Air Force Reserve: Outside the United States
Country
Location
Amount
Guam
Joint Region Marianas
$5,200,000
2606.
Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2017, for the costs of acquisition, architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under
chapter 1803
of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
B
Other Matters
2611.
Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2015 project
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2602 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3688) for Starkville, Mississippi, for construction of an Army Reserve Center at that location, the Secretary of the Army may acquire approximately fifteen acres (653,400 square feet) of land.
2612.
Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 projects
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of
Public Law 113–66
; 127 Stat. 985), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2602, 2604, and 2605 of that Act (127 Stat. 1001, 1002), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
State
Installation or Location
Project
Amount
Florida
Homestead Air Reserve Base
Entry Control Complex
$9,800,000
Maryland
Fort Meade
175th Network Warfare Squadron Facility
$4,000,000
New York
Bullville
Army Reserve Center
$14,500,000
2613.
Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 projects
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2602 and 2604 of that Act (128 Stat. 3688, 3689), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Army Reserve: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
State
Location
Project
Amount
Mississippi
Starkville
Army Reserve Center
$9,300,000
New Hampshire
Pease International Trade Port
KC–46A ADAL Airfield Pavements and Hydrant Systems
$7,100,000
XXVII
Base realignment and closure activities
2701.
Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and closure activities funded through
Department of Defense Base Closure Account
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2017, for base realignment and closure activities, including real property acquisition and military construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of
Public Law 101–510
;
10 U.S.C. 2687
note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2140)), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
2702.
Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and closure (BRAC) round
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.
XXVIII
Military Construction and General Provisions
A
Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing Changes
2801.
Authority to use expiring funds for certain military construction projects
(a)
Army authority to purchase property for expansion of cemeteries
Subchapter I of
chapter 169
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2815.
Army authority to use expiring funds to purchase property for expansion of cemeteries
Of funds appropriated after the date of the enactment of this Act for the Army that remain unobligated and are due to expire at the end of the fiscal year, up to $10,000,000 may be available for the Secretary of the Army for the following fiscal year to purchase public or private property for the sole purpose of long-term expansion of cemeteries under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
.
(b)
Navy authority to purchase property for enhancing installation security
Subchapter I of
chapter 169
of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a), is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2816.
Navy authority to use expiring funds to purchase property for enhancing installation security
Of funds appropriated after the date of the enactment of this Act for the Navy that remain unobligated and are due to expire at the end of the fiscal year, up to $10,000,000 may be available for the Secretary of the Navy for the following fiscal year to purchase public or private property that is otherwise in an area surrounded by a military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy for the purpose of enhancing the security of the installation.
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2814 the following new items:
2815. Army authority to use expiring funds to purchase property for expansion of cemeteries.
2816. Navy authority to use expiring funds to purchase property for enhancing installation
security.
.
2802.
Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation and maintenance funds for construction
projects in certain areas outside the United States
(a)
Extension of authority
Subsection (h) of section 2808 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (division B of
Public Law 108–136
; 117 Stat. 1723), as most recently amended by section 2804 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
), is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
fiscal year 2018
and inserting
fiscal year 2019
.
(b)
Limitation on use of authority
Subsection (c)(1) of such section 2808 is amended—
(1)
by striking
October 1, 2016
and inserting
October 1, 2017
;
(2)
by striking
December 31, 2017
and inserting
December 31, 2018
; and
(3)
by striking
fiscal year 2018
and inserting
fiscal year 2019
.
B
Real Property and Facilities Administration
2811.
Authority to use energy cost savings for energy resilience, mission assurance, and weather damage
repair and prevention measures
Section 2912(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
energy conservation and
and inserting
energy resilience, mission assurance, weather damage repair and prevention, energy conservation, and
.
2812.
Modification of unspecified minor military construction project authority to cover correction of
deficiencies that are threats to installation resilience
Section 2805(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
or safety-threatening
and inserting
safety-threatening, or a threat to the military mission and installation's resilience
.
2813.
Land exchange valuation of property with reduced development that limits encroachment on military installations
(a)
In general
Chapter 159
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2698.
Land exchange valuation of property with reduced development that limits encroachment on military
installations
For purposes of calculating the fair market value of a parcel of real property to be conveyed to the Department of Defense as part of a land exchange, any reduction in value of the real property due to voluntary actions taken by the public or private owner of such property to limit encroachment on a military installation or otherwise limit development shall not be taken into account.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2697 the following new item:
2698. Land exchange valuation of property with reduced development that limits encroachment on
military installations.
.
2814.
Treatment of storm water collection systems as utility systems
Section 2688(i)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subparagraphs (D), (E), and (F) as subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new subparagraph:
(D)
A system for the collection or treatment of storm water.
.
2815.
Access to military installations by transportation network companies
Section 346 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
) is amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by inserting
and transportation network companies
after
transportation companies
;
(2)
in subsections (b), (c), and (d), by inserting
or transportation network company
after
transportation company
each places it appears;
(3)
in subsection (b)(7), by inserting
and transportation network companies
after
transportation companies
; and
(4)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
(B)
by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
(1)
Transportation company
The term
transportation company
means a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or other entity outside of the Department of Defense that provides a commercial transportation service to a rider.
(2)
Transportation network company
The term
transportation network company
—
(A)
means a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or other entity, that uses a digital network to connect riders to covered drivers in order for the driver to transport the rider using a vehicle owned, leased, or otherwise authorized for use by the driver to a point chosen by the rider; and
(B)
does not include a shared-expense carpool or vanpool arrangement that is not intended to generate profit for the driver.
; and
(C)
in subparagraph (A)(i) of paragraph (3), as redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by inserting
or transportation network company
after
transportation company
.
C
Land Conveyances
2821.
Land conveyance, Natick Soldier Systems Center, Massachusetts
(a)
Conveyance authorized
The Secretary of the Army may convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to parcels of real property, including improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 98 acres located in the vicinity of Hudson, Wayland, and Needham, Massachusetts, that are the sites of military family housing supporting military personnel assigned to the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center.
(b)
Competitive sale requirement
The Secretary shall use competitive procedures for the conveyance authorized under subsection (a).
(c)
Consideration
(1)
Consideration required
The Secretary shall require as consideration for the conveyance under subsection (a), whether by in-kind consideration, or a combination of cash and in-kind consideration, an amount that is not less than the fair market value of the conveyed property, as determined pursuant to an appraisal acceptable to the Secretary.
(2)
In-kind consideration
(A)
In general
As determined by the Secretary, in-kind consideration under paragraph (1) shall include—
(i)
demolition of existing military family housing on the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center (other than housing on property conveyed under subsection (a)) that the Secretary determines necessary to accommodate construction of military family housing or unaccompanied soldier housing to support military personnel assigned to the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center;
(ii)
construction or renovation of military family housing or unaccompanied soldier housing, other than general officer housing, to support military personnel assigned to the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center; or
(iii)
construction of ancillary supporting facilities (as that term is defined in section 2871(1) of title 10, United States Code) to support military personnel assigned to the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center.
(B)
In-kind consideration exceeding $1,000,000
If the value of in-kind consideration to be provided under this subsection exceeds $1,000,000, the Secretary may not accept such consideration until 21 days after the date the Secretary notifies the congressional defense committees of the decision of the Secretary to accept in-kind consideration in excess of that amount.
(3)
Cash payments
(A)
Cash payments deposited in a special account
Cash payments provided as consideration under this subsection shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury established for the Secretary.
(B)
Use of funds in special account
The Secretary is authorized to use funds deposited in the special account established under subparagraph (A) for—
(i)
demolition of existing military family housing; or
(ii)
construction or renovation of military family housing or unaccompanied soldier housing to support military personnel.
(C)
Cash consideration not used prior to October 1, 2022
Cash payments provided as consideration under this subsection that are received by the Secretary and not used by the Secretary for purposes authorized by subparagraph (B) prior to October, 1, 2022, shall be transferred to an account in the Treasury established pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United States Code.
(d)
Payment of costs of conveyance
(1)
Payment required
The Secretary shall require the party to whom property is conveyed under subsection (a) (in this section referred to as the
purchaser
) to cover all costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under this section, including survey costs, costs for environmental documentation, and any other administrative costs related to the conveyance. If amounts are collected from the purchaser in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the purchaser.
(2)
Treatment of amounts received
Amounts received under paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a) shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance, or to an appropriate fund or account currently available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the costs were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
(e)
description of parcels
The exact acreage and legal description of the parcels to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey that is satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by the purchaser.
(f)
Additional terms and conditions
The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interest of the United States.
(g)
Application of other laws
The conveyance of property under this section shall not be subject to—
(1)
section 501 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 11411
); and
(2)
subtitle I of title 40, and division C (except section 3302, 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41, United States Code.
2822.
Land conveyance, Army and Air Force Exchange Service property, Dallas, Texas
(a)
Conveyance authorized
The Secretary of Defense may authorize the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the United States, to sell and convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, including improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 7.857 acres located at 8901 Autobahn Drive, Dallas, Texas.
(b)
Consideration
As consideration for the conveyance under subsection (a), the purchaser shall pay the United States, in a single lump sum payment, an amount equal to the fair market value of the real property, as determined pursuant to an appraisal acceptable to the Secretary.
(c)
Treatment of consideration
Section 574(a) of title 40, United States Code, shall apply to the consideration received under subsection (b).
(d)
Description of property
The exact acreage and legal description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by the purchaser.
(e)
Additional terms and conditions
The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(f)
Inapplicability of certain provisions of law
The conveyance of property under this section shall not be subject to section 2696 of title 10, United States Code.
2823.
Land conveyances, certain former peacekeeper ICBM facilities in Wyoming
(a)
Conveyances authorized
The Secretary of the Air Force may convey, without consideration, to the Wyoming Department of State Parks and Cultural Resources (in this section referred to the as the
Department
) all right, title and interest of the United States in and to parcels of real property, together with any improvements thereon, consisting of the missile alert facility and launch control center at the Quebec #1 Missile Alert Facility for the Peacekeeper ICBM facilities of the 190 Missile Group at F.E. Warren Air Force Base, Wyoming, for the purpose of establishing a historical site allowing for the preservation, protection, and interpretation of the facilities.
(b)
Consultation
The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense in order to ensure that the conveyances required in subsection (a) are carried out in accordance with applicable treaties.
(c)
Compliance with treaty and programmatic agreement
The land conveyance under subsection (a) will enable the United States Air Force to comply with the terms of the Programmatic Agreement Between Francis E. Warren Air Force Base, And The Wyoming State Historic Preservation Officer, Regarding The Implementation Of The Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty.
(d)
Payment of costs of conveyance
(1)
Payment required
The Secretary of the Air Force shall require the Department to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), including survey costs, costs for environmental documentation, and any other administrative costs related to the conveyance. If amounts are collected from the Department in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the Department.
(2)
Treatment of amounts received
Amounts received as reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance or, if such fund or account has expired at the time of credit, to an appropriate appropriation, fund, or account currently available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the expenses were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account, and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
(e)
Description of property
The exact acreage and legal description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
(f)
Environmental concerns
The United States Air Force shall retain liability for all environmental closure and reclamation obligations that exist as of the date of the conveyance under subsection (a).
(g)
Additional terms and considerations
The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
2824.
Land exchange, Naval Industrial Ordnance Reserve Plant, Sunnyvale, California
(a)
Land exchange authorized
The Secretary of the Navy (
Secretary
) may convey to an entity (
Exchange Entity
) all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcel of real property, including improvements thereon, comprising the Naval Industrial Reserve Ordnance Plant (NIROP) located in Sunnyvale, California in exchange for property interests that meet the readiness requirements of the Department of the Navy, as determined by the Secretary.
(b)
Land exchange agreement
Exchange of the real property identified in subsection (a) shall be governed by a land exchange agreement that identifies the property interests to be exchanged pursuant to this section, the time period in which the exchange will occur, and the roles and responsibilities of the Secretary and the Exchange Entity in effecting the land exchange.
(c)
Covenants and restrictions
The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that the Exchange Entity accepts the NIROP real property with the covenants, restrictions, and other clauses required by section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9620(h)
).
(d)
Valuation
The value of the property interests to be exchanged by the Secretary and the Exchange Entity pursuant to this section shall be determined—
(1)
by an independent appraiser selected by the Secretary; and
(2)
in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(e)
Cash equalization payment
(1)
Equalization required
If the value of the NIROP property is greater than the value of the Exchange Entity property exchanged under subsection (a), the values shall be equalized through a cash equalization payment from the Exchange Entity to the Department of the Navy.
(2)
No equalization required
If the value of the Exchange Entity property exchanged under subsection (a) is greater than the value of the NIROP property, the Secretary shall not make a cash equalization payment to equalize the values.
(f)
Payment of costs of conveyance
(1)
Payment required
The Secretary shall require the Exchange Entity to pay costs incurred by the Department of the Navy to carry out the exchange of property interests pursuant to this section, including survey costs, costs for environmental documentation, review of replacement facilities design, real estate due diligence, including appraisals, relocation of activities and facilities from Sunnyvale, California to the replacement facilities, and any other administrative costs related to the exchange of property interests. If amounts are collected from the Exchange Entity in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the exchange of property interests, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the Exchange Entity.
(2)
Treatment of amounts received
Amounts received under paragraph (1) above shall be credited and made available to the Secretary in accordance with section 2695(c) of title 10, United States Code.
(g)
Description of property
The exact acreage and legal description of the real property to be exchanged pursuant to this section shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary.
(h)
Relation to other military construction requirements
The acquisition of a facility using the authority provided by this section shall not be treated as a military construction project for which an authorization is required by section 2802 of title 10, United States Code, or for reporting as required by section 2662 of such title.
(i)
Inapplicability of section 2696 of title 10
The real property to be exchanged pursuant to this section is exempt from the screening process required by subsection 2696(b) of title 10, United States Code.
(j)
Requirement for assessment of feasibility of transferring certain functions
The Secretary may not make the conveyance authorized by this section until the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of transferring, in whole or in part, functions currently performed at the Naval Industrial Reserve Ordnance Plant to real property already in the Navy inventory and involved in supporting the fleet ballistic missile program.
(k)
Additional terms and conditions
The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the exchange authorized by this section as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(l)
Sunset provision
The authority provided in this section shall expire on October 1, 2021.
2825.
Land exchange, Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, Texas
(a)
Land exchange authorized
The Secretary of the Navy (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) may convey to the City of Corpus Christi, Texas (in this section referred to as the
City
), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, including improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 44 acres known as the Peary Place Transmitter Site in Nueces County associated with Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, Texas.
(b)
Consideration
As consideration for the conveyance under subsection (a), the City shall convey to the Secretary its real property interests either adjacent or proximate, and causing an encroachment concern as determined by the Secretary, to Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, Naval Outlying Landing Field Waldron and Naval Outlying Landing Field Cabaniss.
(c)
Land exchange agreement
The Secretary and the City may enter into a land exchange agreement to implement this section.
(d)
Valuation
The value of each property interest to be exchanged by the Secretary and the City described in subsections (a) and (b) shall be determined—
(1)
by an independent appraiser selected by the Secretary; and
(2)
in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(e)
Cash equalization payments
(1)
To the Secretary
If the value of the property interests described in subsection (a) is greater than the value of the property interests described in subsection (b), the values shall be equalized through a cash equalization payment from the City to the Department of the Navy.
(2)
No equalization
If the value of the property interests described in subsection (b) is greater than the value of the property interests described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall not make a cash equalization payment to equalize the values.
(f)
Payment of costs of conveyance
(1)
Payment required
The Secretary shall require the City to pay costs to be incurred by the Secretary to carry out the exchange of property interests under this section, including those costs related to land survey, environmental documentation, real estate due diligence such as appraisals, and any other administrative costs related to the exchange of property interests to include costs incurred preparing and executing the land exchange agreement authorized under subsection (c). If amounts are collected from the City in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the exchange of property interests, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the City.
(2)
Treatment of amounts received
Amounts received as reimbursement under paragraph (1) above shall be used in accordance with section 2695(c) of title 10, United States Code.
(g)
Description of property
The exact acreage and legal description of the property interests to be exchanged under this section shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary.
(h)
Conveyance agreement
The exchange of real property interests under this section shall be accomplished using an appropriate legal instrument and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Secretary and the City, including such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(i)
Exemption from screening requirements for additional Federal use
The authority under this section is exempt from the screening process required under section 2696(b) of title 10, United States Code.
(j)
Sunset provision
The authority under this section shall expire on October 1, 2019, unless the Secretary and the City have signed a land exchange agreement described in subsection (c).
D
Project Management and Oversight Reforms
2831.
Notification requirement for certain cost overruns and schedule delays
Section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g);
(2)
by inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsection:
(f)
The Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees of any military construction project or military family housing project that has a cost overrun or schedule delay of 25 percent or more. The notification shall be cosigned by the Chief of Engineers or the Commander of the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, and shall describe the specific reasons for the cost increase or schedule delay, the specific organizations and individuals responsible, and the actions taken to hold the organizations and individuals accountable. The Comptroller General of the United States shall review the notification and validate or correct as necessary the information provided.
; and
(3)
in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by striking
subsections (a) through (e)
and inserting
subsections (a) through (f)
.
2832.
Limited authority for private sector supervision of military construction projects in event of extensive cost overruns or project delays
Section 2851(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
Each contract
and inserting
(1) Except as provided under paragraph (2), each contract
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph
(2)
The Secretary of Defense may arrange for private sector direction and supervision of contracts otherwise subject to the direction and supervision of the Chief of Engineers or the Commander of the Naval Facilities Engineering Command under paragraph (1) if, during the most recent fiscal year for which data is available, the Chief of Engineers or the Commander of the Naval Facilities Engineering Command had cost overruns or project delays of 5 percent or more on at least 10 percent of the contracts for which it was responsible for directing and supervising.
.
2833.
Annual report on cost overruns and schedule delays
Section 2851 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Annual report on cost overruns and schedule delays
The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees an annual report on military construction projects and military family housing projects that had cost overruns or schedule delays of 5 percent or more.
.
2834.
Report on design errors and omissions related to Fort Bliss hospital replacement project
(a)
Report required
(1)
In general
Not later than December 1, 2017, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on design errors and omissions related to the hospital replacement project at Fort Bliss, Texas.
(2)
Elements
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
(A)
Identification of the
design errors
and
omissions
that have been used to explain the $245,000,000, 25 percent cost increase for the replacement project.
(B)
Identification by name of any organization responsible for such design errors or omissions.
(C)
Identification by name of any individual responsible for such design errors or omissions.
(D)
A description of the actions the Secretary of Defense has taken to hold the organizations and individuals referred to in subparagraphs (B) and (C) accountable for such design errors and omissions.
(b)
Limitation
Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available for the hospital replacement project at Fort Bliss, Texas, $50,000,000 may not be obligated or expended for the project until the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees—
(1)
the report required under subsection (a); and
(2)
a written certification that sufficient steps have been taken by the Department of Defense to prevent massive cost overruns on such project in the future.
2835.
Report on cost increase and delay related to USSTRATCOM command and control facility project at
Offutt Air Force Base
(a)
In general
Not later than December 1, 2017, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 16-month schedule delay and 10 percent cost increase related to the United States Strategic Command command and control facility project at Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
(1)
Identification by name of any organization responsible for the delay and cost increase.
(2)
Identification by name of any individual responsible for the delay and cost increase.
(3)
A description of the actions the Secretary of Defense has taken to hold the organizations and individuals referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) accountable for the delay and cost increase.
E
Other Matters
2841.
Annual Department of Defense energy management reports
Section 2925(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading, by striking
resiliency
and inserting
energy resilience
;
(2)
in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, including progress on energy resilience at military installations according to metrics developed by the Secretary.
;
(3)
by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
(3)
Details of all utility outages impacting energy resilience at military installations (excluding planned outages for maintenance reasons), whether caused by on- or off-installation disruptions, including the total number and location of outage, the duration of the outage, the financial impact of the outage, whether or not the mission was impacted, the mission requirements associated with disruption tolerances based on risk to mission, the responsible authority managing the utility, and measure taken to mitigate the outage by the responsible authority.
;
(4)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
(5)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
(4)
Details of a military installation’s total energy requirements and critical energy requirements, and the current energy resilience and emergency backup systems servicing critical energy requirements, including, at a minimum—
(A)
energy resilience and emergency backup system power requirements;
(B)
the critical missions, facility, or facilities serviced;
(C)
system service life;
(D)
capital, operations, maintenance, and testing costs; and
(E)
other information the Secretary determines necessary.
.
2842.
Aggregation of energy efficiency and energy resilience projects in life cycle cost analyses
The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department, when conducting life cycle cost analyses with respect to investments designed to lower costs and reduce energy and water consumption, shall aggregate energy efficiency projects and energy resilience improvements as appropriate.
2843.
Authority of the Secretary of the Air Force to accept lessee improvements at Air Force Plant 42
(a)
Acceptance of lessee improvements at Air Force Plant 42
A lease of Air Force Plant 42, in whole or part, may permit the lessee, with the approval of the Secretary of the Air Force, to alter, expand, or otherwise improve the plant or facility as necessary for the development or production of military weapons systems, munitions, components, or supplies. Such lease may provide, notwithstanding section 2802 of title 10, United States Code, that such alteration, expansion or other improvement shall, upon completion, become the property of the Federal Government, regardless of whether such alteration, expansion, or other improvement constitutes all or part of the consideration for the lease pursuant to section 2667(b)(5) of such title or represents a reimbursable cost allocable to any contract, cooperative agreement, grant, or other instrument with respect to activity undertaken at Air Force Plant 42.
(b)
Congressional notification
When a decision is made to approve a project to which subsection (a) applies costing more than the threshold specified under section 2805(c) of such title, the Secretary of the Air Force shall notify the congressional defense committees in writing of that decision, the justification for the project, and the estimated cost of the project. The Secretary may not carry out the project until the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date the congressional defense committees receive such notification or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notification is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of such title.
2844.
Prohibition on use of funds for Kwajalein project
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 may be made available for a project to construct 52 single family homes on Kwajalein Atoll for $1,300,000 each to support 18 active duty military personnel.
2845.
Energy resilience
(a)
In general
Section 2911 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by striking
performance goals and master plan for
and inserting
policy of
;
(2)
by redesignating subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) as subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) respectively;
(3)
by inserting before subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (2), the following new subsections:
(a)
General energy policy
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure the readiness of the armed forces for their military missions by pursuing energy security and energy resilience.
(b)
Authorities
In order to achieve the policy set forth in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may—
(1)
require the Secretary of a military department to establish and maintain an energy resilience master plan for an installation;
(2)
authorize the use of energy security and energy resilience as factors in the cost-benefit analysis for procurement of energy; and
(3)
in selecting facility energy projects that will use renewable energy sources, pursue energy security and energy resilience by giving favorable consideration to projects that provide power directly to a military facility or into the installation electrical distribution network.
;
(4)
in subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (2)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
, the future demand for energy, and the requirement for the use of energy
after
energy
;
(B)
by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
(2)
Opportunities to enhance energy resilience to ensure the Department of Defense has the ability to prepare for and recover from energy disruptions that impact mission assurance on military installations.
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(13)
Opportunities to leverage third-party financing to address installation energy needs.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 173 is amended by striking the item relating to section 2911 and inserting the following new item:
2911. Energy policy of the Department of Defense.
.
(c)
Conforming amendments
Chapter 173
of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in section 2914, by striking
energy resiliency
each place it appears and inserting
energy resilience
;
(2)
in section 2915—
(A)
by striking
subsection (c)
each place it appears and inserting
subsection (e)
; and
(B)
in subsection (e)(2)(C), by striking
2911(b)(2)
and inserting
2911(d)(2)
;
(3)
in section 2916(b)(2), by striking
2911(a)
and inserting
2911(c)
;
(4)
in section 2922b(a), by striking
subsection (c)
and inserting
subsection (e)
;
(5)
in section 2922f(a), by striking
subsection (c)
and inserting
subsection (e)
;
(6)
in section 2924—
(A)
by striking paragraph (3); and
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7) as paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6), respectively; and
(7)
in section 2925(a)—
(A)
by striking
resiliency
and inserting
energy resilience
; and
(B)
in paragraph (1), by striking
2911(e)
and inserting
2911(g)
.
(d)
Definitions for energy resilience and energy security
Section 101(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(6)
Energy resilience
The term
energy resilience
means the ability to avoid, prepare for, minimize, adapt to, and recover from anticipated and unanticipated energy disruptions in order to ensure energy availability and reliability sufficient to provide for mission assurance and readiness, including task critical assets and other mission essential operations related to readiness, and to execute or rapidly reestablish mission essential requirements.
(7)
Energy security
The term
energy security
means having assured access to reliable supplies of energy and the ability to protect and deliver sufficient energy to meet mission essential requirements.
.
2846.
Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in awarding energy and fuel contracts for
military installations
Section 2922a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
The Secretary concerned shall prioritize energy security and resilience.
.
2847.
Requirement to address energy resilience in exercising utility system conveyance authority
Section 2688(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(3)
The Secretary concerned may require in any contract for the conveyance of a utility system (or part of a utility system) under subsection (a) that the conveyee manage and operate the utility system in a manner consistent with energy resilience requirements and metrics provided to the conveyee to ensure that the reliability of the utility system meets mission requirements.
(4)
The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall include in the installation energy report submitted under section 2925(a) of this title a description of progress in meeting energy resilience metrics for all conveyance contracts entered into pursuant to this section.
.
2848.
In-kind lease payments; prioritization of utility services that promote energy resilience
Section 2667(c)(1)(D) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
, which shall prioritize energy resilience in the event of commercial grid outages
after
Secretary concerned
.
2849.
Disclosure of beneficial ownership by foreign persons of high security space leased by the
Department of Defense
(a)
Identification of beneficial ownership
Before entering into a lease agreement with a covered entity for accommodation of a military department or Defense Agency in a building (or other improvement) that will be used for high-security leased space, the Department of Defense shall require the covered entity to—
(1)
identify each beneficial owner of the covered entity by—
(A)
name;
(B)
current residential or business street address; and
(C)
in the case of a United States person, a unique identifying number from a nonexpired passport issued by the United States or a nonexpired drivers license issued by a State; and
(2)
disclose to the Department of Defense any beneficial owner of the covered entity that is a foreign person.
(b)
Required disclosure
(1)
Initial disclosure
The Secretary of Defense shall require a covered entity to provide the information required under subsection (a), when first submitting a proposal in response to a solicitation for offers issued by the Department.
(2)
Updates
The Secretary of Defense shall require a covered entity to update a submission of information required under subsection (a) not later than 60 days after the date of any change in—
(A)
the list of beneficial owners of the covered entity; or
(B)
the information required to be provided relating to each such beneficial owner.
(c)
Precautions
If a covered entity discloses a foreign person as a beneficial owner of a building (or other improvement) from which the Department of Defense is leasing high-security leased space, the Department of Defense shall notify the tenant of the space to take appropriate security precautions.
(d)
Definitions
(1)
Beneficial owner
(A)
In general
The term beneficial owner—
(i)
means, with respect to a covered entity, each natural person who, directly or indirectly—
(I)
exercises control over the covered entity through ownership interests, voting rights, agreements, or otherwise; or
(II)
has an interest in or receives substantial economic benefits from the assets of the covered entity; and
(ii)
does not include, with respect to a covered entity—
(I)
a minor child;
(II)
a person acting as a nominee, intermediary, custodian, or agent on behalf of another person;
(III)
a person acting solely as an employee of the covered entity and whose control over or economic benefits from the covered entity derives solely from the employment status of the person;
(IV)
a person whose only interest in the covered entity is through a right of inheritance, unless the person otherwise meets the definition of
beneficial owner
under this paragraph; and
(V)
a creditor of the covered entity, unless the creditor otherwise meets the requirements of
beneficial owner
described above.
(B)
Anti-abuse rule
The exceptions under subparagraph (A)(ii) shall not apply if used for the purpose of evading, circumventing, or abusing the requirements of this section.
(2)
Covered entity
The term
covered entity
means a person, copartnership, corporation, or other public or private entity.
(3)
Foreign person
The term
foreign person
means an individual who is not a United States person or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence into the United States.
(4)
High-security leased space
The term
high-security leased space
means a space leased by the Department of Defense that has a security level of III, IV, or V, as determined by the Interagency Security Committee.
(5)
United States person
The term
United States person
means a natural person who is a citizen of the United States or who owes permanent allegiance to the United States.
XXIX
Overseas contingency operations military construction
2901.
Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects
The Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out the military construction projects for the installation outside the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:
Army: Outside the United States
Country
Location
Amount
Cuba
Guantanamo Bay
$115,000,000
2902.
Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition projects
The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out the military construction projects for the installations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air Force: Outside the United States
Country
Location
Amount
Estonia
Amari Air Base
$13,900,000
Hungary
Kecskemet Air Base
$55,400,000
Iceland
Keflavik
$14,400,000
Jordan
Azraq
$143,000,000
Latvia
Lielvarde Air Base
$3,850,000
Luxembourg
Sanem
$67,400,000
Norway
Rygge
$10,300,000
Romania
Campia Turzii
$2,950,000
Slovakia
Malacky
$24,000,000
Sliac Airport
$22,000,000
Turkey
Incirlik Air Base
$22,700,000
2903.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2017, for the military construction projects outside the United States authorized by this title as specified in the funding table in section 4602 and 4603.
2904.
Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2015 projects
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 4602 of that Act (128 Stat. 3981), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Extension of 2015 Air Force OCO Project Authorizations
Country
Installation
Project
Amount
Italy
Camp Darby
ERI: Improve Weapons Storage Facility
$44,500,000
Poland
Lask Air Base
ERI: Improve Support Infrastructure
$22,400,000
C
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
XXXI
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
A
National Security Programs and Authorizations
3101.
National Nuclear Security Administration
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 for the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
(b)
Authorization of new plant projects
From funds referred to in subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
Project 18–D–660, Fire Station, Y–12 National Security Complex, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, $20,400,000.
Project 18–D–650, Tritium Production Capability, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina,
$9,100,000.
Project 18–D–620, Exascale Computing Facility Modernization Project, Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory, Livermore, California, $3,000,000.
Project 18–D–670, Exascale Class Computer Cooling Equipment, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los
Alamos, New Mexico, $22,000,000.
Project 18–D–922, BL Component Test Complex, Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory, West Mifflin,
Pennsylvania, $3,100,000.
Project 18–D–921, KS Overhead Piping, Kesselring Site, West Milton, New York, $10,716,000.
Project 18–D–920, KL Fuel Development Laboratory, Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory, Schenectady, New
York, $1,100,000.
3102.
Defense environmental cleanup
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 for defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
(b)
Authorization of new plant projects
From funds referred to in subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may carry out, for defense environmental cleanup activities, the following new plant projects:
Project 18–D–401, Saltstone Disposal Units numbers 8 and 9, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South
Carolina, $500,000.
Project 18–D–402, Emergency Operations Center Replacement, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South
Carolina, $500,000.
Project 18–D–404, Modification of Waste Encapsulation and Storage Facility, Hanford Nuclear
Reservation, Richland, Washington, $6,500,000.
3103.
Other defense activities
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 for other defense activities in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
3104.
Nuclear energy
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 for nuclear energy as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
B
Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations
3111.
Assessment and development of prototype nuclear weapons of foreign countries
(a)
Stockpile stewardship, management, and responsiveness plan
Section 4203(d)(1) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2523(d)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (M), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
in subparagraph (N), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(O)
as required, when assessing and developing prototype nuclear weapons of foreign countries, a report from the directors of the national security laboratories on the need and plan for such assessment and development that includes separate comments on the plan from the Secretary of Energy and the Director of National Intelligence.
.
(b)
Stockpile responsiveness program
Section 4220(c) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2538b(c)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(6)
The retention of the ability, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, to assess and develop prototype nuclear weapons of foreign countries and, if necessary, to conduct no-yield testing of those prototypes.
.
(c)
Conforming repeal
(1)
In general
Section 4509 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2660
) is repealed.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking the items relating to sections 4508 and 4509.
3112.
Use of funds for construction and project support activities relating to MOX facility
(a)
In general
Except as provided by subsection (b), the Secretary of Energy shall carry out construction and project support activities relating to the MOX facility using funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for the National Nuclear Security Administration for the MOX facility for construction and project support activities.
(b)
Waiver
(1)
In general
The Secretary may waive the requirement under subsection (a) to carry out construction and project support activities relating to the MOX facility if the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees—
(A)
the commitment of the Secretary to remove plutonium intended to be disposed of in the MOX facility from South Carolina and ensure a sustainable future for the Savannah River Site;
(B)
a certification that—
(i)
an alternative option for carrying out the plutonium disposition program for the same amount of plutonium as the amount of plutonium intended to be disposed of in the MOX facility exists, meeting the requirements of the Business Operating Procedure of the National Nuclear Security Administration entitled
Analysis of Alternatives
and dated March 14, 2016 (BOP–03.07); and
(ii)
the remaining lifecycle cost, determined in a manner consistent with the cost estimating and assessment best practices of the Government Accountability Office, as found in the document of the Government Accountability Office entitled
GAO Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide
(GAO–09–3SP), for the alternative option would be less than half of the estimated remaining lifecycle cost of the mixed-oxide fuel program; and
(C)
the details of any statutory or regulatory changes necessary to complete the alternative option.
(2)
Estimates
The Secretary shall ensure that the estimates used by the Secretary for purposes of the certification under paragraph (1)(B) are of comparable accuracy.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
MOX facility
The term
MOX facility
means the mixed-oxide fuel fabrication facility at the Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina.
(2)
Project support activities
The term
project support activities
means activities that support the design, long-lead equipment procurement, and site preparation of the MOX facility.
3113.
Repeal, consolidation, and modification of reporting requirements
(a)
Repeal of annual report on status of nuclear materials protection, control, and accounting program
(1)
In general
Section 4303 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2563
) is repealed.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking the item relating to section 4303.
(b)
Modification of report on status of security of atomic energy defense facilities
Section 4506 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2657
) is amended by striking
each year
each place it appears and inserting
each odd-numbered year
.
(c)
Plan for addressing security risks posed to nuclear weapons complex
(1)
Consolidation into stockpile stewardship and management plan
Section 4203 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2523
) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (c)—
(i)
by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs (7) and (8), respectively; and
(ii)
by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new paragraph:
(6)
A summary of the plan for the research and development, deployment, and lifecycle sustainment of technologies employed within the nuclear security enterprise.
; and
(B)
in subsection (d)—
(i)
by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
(ii)
by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph:
(7)
A plan, developed in consultation with the Associate Under Secretary for Environment, Health, Safety, and Security of the Department of Energy, for the research and development, deployment, and lifecycle sustainment of the technologies employed within the nuclear security enterprise to address physical and cyber security threats during the five fiscal years following the date of the report, together with—
(A)
for each site in the nuclear security enterprise, a description of the technologies deployed to address the physical and cyber security threats posed to that site; and
(B)
for each site and for the nuclear security enterprise, the methods used by the Administration to establish priorities among investments in physical and cyber security technologies.
.
(2)
Conforming repeal
Section 3253(b) of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (
50 U.S.C. 2453(b)
) is amended by striking paragraph (5).
(d)
Modification of submission of Selected Acquisition Reports
Section 4217(a) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2537(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking
each fiscal-year quarter
and inserting
the first quarter of each fiscal year
;
(B)
by striking
or a major
and inserting
and each major
; and
(C)
by inserting
during the preceding fiscal year
after
4713(a)(2))
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
by striking
a fiscal-year quarter
and inserting
a fiscal year
; and
(B)
by striking
such fiscal-year quarter
and inserting
each fiscal-year quarter in that fiscal year
.
(e)
Modification of submission of plan for meeting national security requirements for unencumbered
uranium
Section 4221(a) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2538c(a)
) is amended by striking
Concurrent with
and all that follows through
2026
and inserting
Not later than December 31 of each even-numbered year through 2026
.
(f)
Modifications to defense nuclear nonproliferation management plan
(1)
Modification of submission
Section 4309 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2575
) is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (c);
(B)
by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
(C)
by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following new subsections:
(a)
Plan required
The Administrator shall develop and annually update a five-year management plan for activities associated with the defense nuclear nonproliferation programs of the Administration to prevent and counter the proliferation of materials, technology, equipment, and expertise related to nuclear and radiological weapons in order to minimize and address the risk of nuclear terrorism and the proliferation of such weapons.
(b)
Submission to Congress
(1)
Not later than March 15 of each even-numbered year, the Administrator shall submit to the congressional defense committees a summary of the plan developed under subsection (a).
(2)
Not later than March 15 of each odd-numbered year, the Administrator shall submit to the congressional defense committees a detailed report on the plan developed under subsection (a).
(3)
Each summary submitted under paragraph (1) and each report submitted under paragraph (2) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex if necessary.
.
(2)
Elimination of identification of future international contributions
Subsection (c) of such section, as redesignated by paragraph (1)(B), is further amended—
(A)
by striking paragraph (14); and
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (15) and (16) as paragraphs (14) and (15), respectively.
(3)
Conforming amendments
Subsection (c) of such section, as redesignated by paragraph (1)(B) and amended by paragraph (2), is further amended—
(A)
in paragraph (2), by striking
the plan required by subsection (a)
and inserting
the summary required by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be
;
(B)
in paragraph (6), by striking
the plan required by subsection (a)
and inserting
the summary required by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be
;
(C)
in paragraph (7), by striking
the plan required by subsection (a)
and inserting
the summary required by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be,
;
(D)
in paragraph (9), by striking
the plan required by subsection (a)
and inserting
the summary required by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be,
; and
(E)
in paragraph (10), by striking
the plan required by subsection (a)
and inserting
the summary required by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be,
.
(g)
Modification of submission of cost-benefit analyses for competition of management and operating
contracts
Section 3121 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2175), as most recently amended by section 3135 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 1207), is further amended in subsection (a) by striking
30 days
and inserting
180 days
.
3114.
National Nuclear Security Administration personnel system
(a)
In general
Subtitle C of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (
50 U.S.C. 2441
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
3248.
Alternative personnel system
(a)
In general
The Administrator may adapt the pay banding and performance-based pay adjustment demonstration project carried out by the Administration under the authority provided by section 4703 of title 5, United States Code, into a permanent alternative personnel system for the Administration (to be known as the
National Nuclear Security Administration Personnel System
) and implement that system with respect to employees of the Administration.
(b)
Modifications
In adapting the demonstration project described in subsection (a) into a permanent alternative personnel system, the Administrator—
(1)
may, subject to paragraph (2), revise the requirements and limitations of the demonstration project to the extent necessary; and
(2)
shall ensure that the permanent alternative personnel system is carried out in a manner consistent with the final plan for the demonstration project (72 Fed. Reg. 72776).
(c)
Application to Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program
The Administrator may apply the alternative personnel system under subsection (a) to all employees of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program in the competitive service (as defined in section 2102 of title 5, United States Code).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the National Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3247 the following new item:
Sec. 3248. Alternative personnel system.
.
3115.
Annual reports on unfunded priorities of National Nuclear Security Administration
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title XLVII of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2741
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
4715.
Unfunded priorities of the National Nuclear Security Administration
(a)
Annual report
Not later than 10 days after the date on which the budget of the President for a fiscal year is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the Administrator shall submit to the Secretary of Energy and the congressional defense committees a report on the unfunded priorities of the Administration.
(b)
Elements
(1)
In general
Each report required by subsection (a) shall specify, for each unfunded priority covered by the report, the following:
(A)
A summary description of that priority, including the objectives to be achieved if that priority is funded (whether in whole or in part).
(B)
The additional amount of funds recommended in connection with the objectives under subparagraph (A).
(C)
Account information with respect to that priority.
(2)
Prioritization of priorities
Each report required by subsection (a) shall present the unfunded priorities covered by the report in order of urgency of priority.
(c)
Unfunded priority defined
In this section, the term
unfunded priority
, in the case of a fiscal year, means a program, activity, or mission requirement that—
(1)
is not funded in the budget of the President for that fiscal year as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code;
(2)
is necessary to fulfill a requirement associated with an operational or contingency plan or other validated requirement of the Administration; and
(3)
would have been recommended for funding through the budget referred to in paragraph (1) by the Secretary of Energy—
(A)
if additional resources were available for the budget to fund the program, activity, or mission requirement; or
(B)
in the case of a program, activity, or mission requirement that emerged after the budget was formulated, if the program, activity, or mission requirement had emerged before the budget was formulated.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4714 the following new item:
Sec. 4715. Unfunded priorities of the National Nuclear Security Administration.
.
XXXII
DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
3201.
Authorization
There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018, $30,600,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (
42 U.S.C. 2286
et seq.).
XXXV
MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
3501.
Maritime Administration
Section 109 of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
109.
Maritime Administration
(a)
Organization and mission
The Maritime Administration is an administration in the Department of Transportation. The mission of the Maritime Administration is to foster, promote, and develop the merchant maritime industry of the United States.
(b)
Maritime Administrator
The head of the Maritime Administration is the Maritime Administrator, who is appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Administrator shall report directly to the Secretary of Transportation and carry out the duties prescribed by the Secretary.
(c)
Deputy Maritime Administrator
The Maritime Administration shall have a Deputy Maritime Administrator, who is appointed in the competitive service by the Secretary, after consultation with the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall carry out the duties prescribed by the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall be Acting Administrator during the absence or disability of the Administrator and, unless the Secretary designates another individual, during a vacancy in the office of Administrator.
(d)
Duties and powers vested in Secretary
All duties and powers of the Maritime Administration are vested in the Secretary.
(e)
Regional offices
The Maritime Administration shall have regional offices for the Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes, and Pacific port ranges, and may have other regional offices as necessary. The Secretary shall appoint a qualified individual as Director of each regional office. The Secretary shall carry out appropriate activities and programs of the Maritime Administration through the regional offices.
(f)
Interagency and industry relations
The Secretary shall establish and maintain liaison with other agencies, and with representative trade organizations throughout the United States, concerned with the transportation of commodities by water in the export and import foreign commerce of the United States, for the purpose of securing preference to vessels of the United States for the transportation of those commodities.
(g)
Detailing officers from Armed Forces
To assist the Secretary in carrying out duties and powers relating to the Maritime Administration, not more than five officers of the Armed Forces may be detailed to the Secretary at any one time, in addition to details authorized by any other law. During the period of a detail, the Secretary shall pay the officer an amount that, when added to the officer's pay and allowances as an officer in the Armed Forces, makes the officer's total pay and allowances equal to the amount that would be paid to an individual performing work the Secretary considers to be of similar importance, difficulty, and responsibility as that performed by the officer during the detail.
(h)
Contracts, cooperative agreements, and audits
(1)
Contracts and cooperative agreements
In the same manner that a private corporation may make a contract within the scope of its authority under its charter, the Secretary may make contracts and cooperative agreements for the United States Government and disburse amounts to—
(A)
carry out the Secretary's duties and powers under this section, subtitle V of title 46, and all other Maritime Administration programs; and
(B)
protect, preserve, and improve collateral held by the Secretary to secure indebtedness.
(2)
Audits
The financial transactions of the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be audited by the Comptroller General. The Comptroller General shall allow credit for an expenditure shown to be necessary because of the nature of the business activities authorized by this section or subtitle V of title 46. At least once a year, the Comptroller General shall report to Congress any departure by the Secretary from this section or subtitle V of title 46.
(i)
Grant administrative expenses
Except as otherwise provided by law, the administrative and related expenses for the administration of any grant programs by the Maritime Administrator may not exceed 3 percent.
(j)
Authorization of appropriations
(1)
In general
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated such amounts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and powers of the Secretary relating to the Maritime Administration.
(2)
Limitations
Only those amounts specifically authorized by law may be appropriated for the use of the Maritime Administration for—
(A)
acquisition, construction, or reconstruction of vessels;
(B)
construction-differential subsidies incident to the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning of vessels;
(C)
costs of national defense features;
(D)
payments of obligations incurred for operating-differential subsidies;
(E)
expenses necessary for research and development activities, including reimbursement of the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund for losses resulting from expenses of experimental vessel operations;
(F)
the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund;
(G)
National Defense Reserve Fleet expenses;
(H)
expenses necessary to carry out part B of subtitle V of title 46; and
(I)
other operations and training expenses related to the development of waterborne transportation systems, the use of waterborne transportation systems, and general administration.
.
D
Funding Tables
4001.
Authorization of amounts in funding tables
(a)
In general
Whenever a funding table in this division specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to the availability of appropriations.
(b)
Merit-based decisions
A decision to commit, obligate, or expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall—
(1)
be based on merit-based selection procedures in accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive procedures; and
(2)
comply with other applicable provisions of law.
(c)
Relationship to transfer and programming authority
An amount specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other provision of law, unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between appropriation accounts.
(d)
Applicability to classified annex
This section applies to any classified annex that accompanies this Act.
(e)
Oral written communications
No oral or written communication concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in this division shall supersede the requirements of this section.
