Executive Order 6606—Veterans Regulation No. 2(c)
February 17, 1934
Franklin D. Roosevelt

EFFECTIVE DATES OF AWARDS OF DISABILITY AND DEATH PENSIONS; PROVISIONS FOR FILING CLAIMS; REVIEW OF PRESUMPTIVE CLAIMS BY SPECIAL REVIEW BOARDS

By virtue of the authority vested in me under section 9 of title I of the act entitled "AN ACT To maintain the credit of the United States Government", approved March 20, 1933 (Public, No. 2, 73d Cong.), the following regulation amending Veterans Regulation No. 2(a) is hereby prescribed:

Paragraph III of part II of Veterans Regulation No. 2(a) is amended to read as follows:

"III. Applications for review on appeal to the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs shall be filed (excepting in those claims involving simultaneously contested claims (see paragraph X (a) hereof)) within 1 year from the date of mailing of notice of the result of initial review or determination or from July 1, 1933, whichever is the later date. Applications for review must be filed with the activity which entered the denial. If no application for review on appeal is filed in accordance with this regulation within the time limit specified, the action taken on initial review or determination shall become final and the claim will not thereafter be reopened or allowed, except where subsequent to such disallowance new and material evidence in the form of official reports from the proper service department is secured the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs may authorize the reopening of the claim and review of the former decision. If application for review on appeal is entered within the time limit specified by regulations, a reasonable time thereafter will be allowed, if requested, for the perfection of the appeal and the presentation of additional evidence before final determination or decision is made. For the purpose of this paragraph, application for review on appeal, filed with the activity which entered the denial, which is postmarked prior to the expiration of the 1-year period wall be accepted as having been filed within the time limit."

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

The White House,

February 17, 1934.
