Executive Order 6221-B—Code of Fair Competition for the National Association of Hosiery Manufacturers
July 26, 1933
Franklin D. Roosevelt

Pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, and pending action upon a Code of Fair Competition to be presented by the National Association of Hosiery Manufacturers,

I agree with the Conference Committee of the National Association of Hosiery Manufacturers representing the manufacturers of all types of hosiery, pending the approval of a Code of Fair Competition for the Industry that they shall be bound beginning July 26, 1933 by the provisions of certain articles of their proposed Code of Fair Competition for the Hosiery Industry to wit:

"ARTICLE IV—HOURS OF WORK

"On and after the date on which this Code goes into effect, no employer in the hosiery industry shall employ any employee in productive operations on a schedule of hours of labor which shall exceed 40 hours per week, it being understood that this does not apply to supervisors, foremen, engineers, electricians, repairshop men, dyers, shipping crews, watchmen, cleaners and outside crews. The productive operations of a plant shall not exceed two shifts of 40 hours each per week. Manufacturers of woolen hosiery may operate their carding equipment not to exceed three shifts of 40 hours each pending the adoption of a code for the wool industry. Such manufacturers may also operate their knitting equipment not to exceed three shifts of 40 hours each until December 31, 1933, after which their knitting operations shall be limited to two shifts of 40 hours each.

The work-week for productive operations, except dyeing, shall consist of five days of eight hours each. These days shall be Monday to Friday.

From the date that this Article shall be put into effect tentatively, and until the date on which the Code shall go into effect, full fashioned footing equipment which is operating one shift shall continue to operate one shift only, and full fashioned footing equipment which is operating more than one shift shall operate not to exceed two shifts.

ARTICLE V—WAGES

On and after the date on which this Code become effective the minimum wage, on the basis of forty hours labor per week, to be paid by all employers in the hosiery industry shall be at the following rates:

The minimum wages in the Southern Territory, except for learners, and except as already indicated for Class 4 of Full Fashioned workers and Class 3 of Seamless workers, shall be below those given above by an amount not to exceed 10 %. The exact minima for the Southern territory shall be defined by the Hosiery Industry Board of Control on or before the date on which the Code shall go into effect.

ARTICLE X—RIGHTS OF EMPLOYERS

All manufacturers of hosiery shall respect and be bound by the provisions of Section No. 7 (Sub-section A) of the National Industrial Recovery Act, which provides:

"(1) That employees shall have the right to organize and bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing, and shall be free from the interference, restraint, or coercion of employers of labor, or their agents, in the designation of such representatives or in self-organization or in other concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection; (2) that no employee and no one seeking employment shall be required as a condition of employment to join any company union or to refrain from joining, organizing, or assisting a labor organization of its own choosing; and (3) that employers shall comply with the maximum hours of labor, minimum rates of pay, and other conditions of employment, approved or prescribed by the President."

This agreement is offered to the President of the United States pursuant to Section 4 of the National Recovery Act, and addressed to General Hugh S. Johnson, Administrator, with the express understanding that this agreement is subject to cancellation or modification at any time without notice, and that its purpose is to raise, not to lower standards and that there will be no delay in the submission of the final Code for the Industry.

Recommended for Approval by:

HUGH S. JOHNSON.

FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT

The White House,

July 26, 1933.

Related Images

169055-1.jpg

169055-2.jpg
