113 HJ 21 IH: Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to clarify the authority of Congress and the States to regulate corporations, limited liability companies or other corporate entities established by the laws of any State, the United States, or any foreign state.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-01-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. J. RES. 21
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 22, 2013
Mr. McGovern
(for
himself,
Mr. Jones
,
Ms. Pingree of Maine
,
Mr. Capuano
,
Mr. Cohen
,
Mr. Cicilline
,
Mr. Farr
,
Mr. DeFazio
, and
Ms.
Lee of California
) introduced the following joint resolution; which
was referred to the
Committee on the
Judiciary
JOINT RESOLUTION
Proposing an amendment to the Constitution
of the United States to clarify the authority of Congress and the States to
regulate corporations, limited liability companies or other corporate entities
established by the laws of any State, the United States, or any foreign
state.
That the following article is
proposed as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall
be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when ratified
by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States:
 —
1.
We the people who ordain and establish this
Constitution intend the rights protected by this Constitution to be the rights
of natural persons.
2.
The words people, person, or citizen as
used in this Constitution do not include corporations, limited liability
companies or other corporate entities established by the laws of any State, the
United States, or any foreign state, and such corporate entities are subject to
such regulation as the people, through their elected State and Federal
representatives, deem reasonable and are otherwise consistent with the powers
of Congress and the States under this Constitution.
3.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed
to limit the people’s rights of freedom of speech, freedom of the press, free
exercise of religion, freedom of association and all such other rights of the
people, which rights are
unalienable.
.
