1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Grand Canyon Centennial Protection Act
.
2.
Withdrawal of Federal land from mining laws
(a)
Definition of map
In this section, the term
Map
means the Bureau of Land Management map entitled
Grand Canyon Centennial Protection Act
and dated July 11, 2019.
(b)
Withdrawal
Subject to valid existing rights, the approximately 1,006,545 acres of Federal land in the State of Arizona within the area depicted on the Map, including any land or interest in land that is acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act, is withdrawn from—
(1)
all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under the public land laws;
(2)
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
(3)
operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws and mineral materials laws.
(c)
Availability of map
The Map shall be kept on file and made available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management.
3.
GAO study on domestic uranium stockpiles
(a)
In general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study of uranium stockpiles in the United States that are available to meet future national security requirements.
(b)
Requirements
The study conducted under subsection (a) shall identify—
(1)
(A)
existing and potential future national security program demands for uranium; and
(B)
existing and projected future inventories of domestic uranium that could be available to meet national security needs; and
(2)
the extent to which national security needs are capable of being met with existing uranium stockpiles.
(c)
Deadline for completion of study
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall provide a briefing on the study conducted under subsection (a) to—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
(2)
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate;
(3)
the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate;
(4)
the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives;
(5)
the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives; and
(6)
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
