1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
SBIR Expansion and Accountability Act of 2019
.
2.
Amendments to the Small Business Act
(a)
Goals of the SBIR program
Section 9(a) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
Additionally, it is the sense of Congress that the goals of the Small Business Innovation Research Program are to stimulate technological innovation, meet Federal research and development needs, foster and encourage participation in innovation and entrepreneurship by women and socially or economically disadvantaged individuals, and increase private-sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and development funding.
.
(b)
Reporting requirements
Section 9(b) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (7)—
(A)
in subparagraph (F), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in subparagraph (G), by adding
and
at the end; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(H)
with respect to a Federal agency to which subsection (f)(1) or (n)(1) applies, whether the Federal agency has satisfied the requirement under each applicable subsection for the year covered by the report;
;
(2)
in paragraph (8), by striking
and
at the end;
(3)
in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
(10)
with respect to a Federal agency to which subsection (f)(1) or (n)(1) applies and that the Administration determines has not satisfied the requirement under either applicable subsection, require the head of that Federal agency to submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report regarding why the Federal agency has not satisfied the requirement.
.
(c)
Additional resources for the Office of Investment and Innovation
Section 9(mm) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(mm)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
paragraph (3)
and inserting
paragraphs (3) and (4)
;
(2)
by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) as paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respectively; and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
(4)
Transfer to Office of Investment and Innovation
Of the amount that a Federal agency allocates for uses under paragraph (1), the agency shall transfer 5 percent of that amount to the Office of Investment and Innovation of the Administration, which the Office shall use to carry out the functions of the Office.
.
3.
Inclusion of Federal Aviation Administration in the Small Business Innovation Research Program and
Small Business Technology Transfer Program
Section 40101(d)(2)(D) of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(D)
The Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 631
et seq.), except that—
(i)
section 9 of such Act (
15 U.S.C. 638
) shall apply; and
(ii)
all reasonable opportunities to be awarded contracts shall be provided to small business concerns and small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.
.
