1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Physician Education on PFAS Health Impacts Act
.
2.
Grant program for training of physicians on PFAS
Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 280g
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
399V–7.
Grant program for training of physicians on PFAS
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities for the purpose of developing courses for physicians or other medical practitioners to inform such physicians and medical practitioners about the impact of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance exposure on health outcomes and best practices for patients who have been exposed to such substances.
(b)
Eligible entities
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, and entity shall—
(1)
be—
(A)
a national or State medical organization or other organization that provides educational courses to health care providers; or
(B)
an institution of medical research or a clinical researcher at such an institution of medical research;
(2)
have expertise in clinical conditions or diseases that are related or exacerbated by perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance exposure, experience in environmental health, and other expertise and experience as the Secretary determines appropriate;
(3)
commit to gathering input from patients and clinicians when developing the training courses, as the Secretary determines appropriate; and
(4)
submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Reporting
(1)
Grantee reporting to the Secretary
Each recipient of a grant under this section shall annually report to the Secretary, in a form and manner determined by the Secretary, on training materials developed through use of funds awarded under the grant. Each such report shall include any findings or recommendations that the grantees have determined should be included in physician or medical practitioner training.
(2)
HHS dissemination of information
Each year, not later than 90 days after receiving the reports from grant recipients under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall disseminate to the public a summary of findings and recommendations that are included in the material provided under such paragraph (1).
(d)
Definition
In this section, the term
PFAS
means a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for the period of fiscal years 2021 through 2025, to remain available until expended.
.
