1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Telework Cybersecurity for Small Organizations Act
.
2.
Small organization telework cybersecurity
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Trade Commission.
(2)
Coronavirus public health emergency
The term
coronavirus public health emergency
means the public health emergency declared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
) on January 31, 2020, as a result of confirmed cases of COVID–19.
(3)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.
(4)
Small business
The term
small business
has the meaning given the term
small business concern
in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
) and any associated regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(5)
Small governmental jurisdiction
The term
small governmental jurisdiction
means governments of cities, counties, towns, townships, villages, school districts, or special districts, with a population of less than 50,000.
(6)
Small nonprofit
The term
small nonprofit
means any not-for-profit enterprise that is independently owned and operated and is not dominant in its field.
(7)
Small organization
The term
small organization
means organizations unlikely to employ a specialist in cybersecurity, including—
(A)
a small business;
(B)
a small nonprofit; and
(C)
a small governmental jurisdiction.
(b)
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency telework guidance for small organizations
(1)
In general
Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director, in consultation with the Commission, shall publish a resource on the website of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency describing best practices a small organization may take to improve cybersecurity with respect to teleworking.
(2)
Contents
The resource required under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
include basic steps that have the most impact in improving the security of teleworking for a small organization;
(B)
recommend, as practicable, configurations and settings for commonly used software that can improve the cybersecurity of small organizations with increased teleworking; and
(C)
be consistent with—
(i)
relevant standards and guidelines published by the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology;
(ii)
guidance from the Director entitled
Telework Guidance and Resources
, issued on April 24, 2020, or any successor guidance; and
(iii)
Alert (AA20–073A) regarding Enterprise VPN Security issued by the Director on March 13, 2020, or any successor guidance.
(c)
Federal Trade Commission Program To Assist Cybersecurity Efforts
Not later than 30 days after the publishing of the resource required under subsection (b), the Commission, in coordination with the Director, shall establish a program—
(1)
to educate consumers and small organizations on improving the cybersecurity of the technologies increasingly used for distance learning, telemedicine, and telework as a result of the coronavirus public health emergency; and
(2)
that shall be consistent with the resource required under subsection (b).
