1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fallen Journalists Memorial Act of 2019
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Eligible federal land
(A)
In general
The term
eligible Federal land
means Federal land depicted as
Area I
or
Area II
on the map numbered 869/86501 B and dated June 24, 2003.
(B)
Exclusion
The term
eligible Federal land
does not include the Reserve (as defined in section 8902(a) of title 40, United States Code).
(2)
Foundation
The term
Foundation
means the Fallen Journalists Memorial Foundation.
3.
Establishment of memorial to commemorate the commitment of the United States to a free press by
honoring journalists who have sacrificed their lives in service to that
cause
(a)
Commemorative work authorized
The Foundation may establish a commemorative work on eligible Federal land to commemorate the sacrifices made by journalists working as guardians of democracy and for a free and independent press.
(b)
Compliance with standards for commemorative works
Chapter 89
of title 40, United States Code, and other applicable Federal laws (including regulations) shall apply to the establishment of the commemorative work authorized under subsection (a).
(c)
Prohibition on use of federal funds
The Foundation may not use Federal funds to establish the commemorative work authorized under subsection (a).
(d)
Deposit of excess funds
(1)
On establishment of commemorative work
If, on payment of all expenses for the establishment of the commemorative work authorized under subsection (a) (including the maintenance and preservation amounts required by section 8906(b)(1) of title 40, United States Code), there remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of the commemorative work, the Foundation shall transmit the amount of the balance to the account provided for in section 8906(b)(3) of that title.
(2)
On expiration of authority to establish commemorative work
If, on expiration under section 8903(e) of title 40, United States Code, of the authority for the commemorative work authorized under subsection (a), there remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of the commemorative work, the Foundation shall transmit the amount of the balance to a separate account with the National Park Foundation for memorials, to be available to the Secretary of the Interior or Administrator of General Services, as appropriate, following the process provided in section 8906(b)(4) of that title for accounts established under section 8906(b)(3) of that title.
