1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
EPA Pays Act
.
2.
Liability
(a)
Economic damages
Section 107(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9607(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (4)—
(A)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(B)
in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding after subparagraph (D) the following:
(E)
in the case of a person who is the United States Government, any other economic damages incurred by any person caused by the United States Government.
; and
(2)
in the matter following paragraph (4), by striking
subparagraphs (A) through (D)
and inserting
subparagraphs (A) through (E)
.
(b)
Liability of United States Government
Section 107(d)(1) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9607(d)(1)
) is amended by inserting
other than the United States Government
after
no person
.
3.
Reimbursement to Judgment Fund
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall reimburse to the fund described in section 1304 of title 31, United States Code, from the unobligated balance of amounts available to the Administrator in the
Environmental Programs and Management
account for the Information Exchange/Outreach, Enforcement, and Clean Air and Climate program areas, an amount equal to the amount of each payment made from such fund resulting from a claim under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 or
chapter 171
of title 28, United States Code.
(b)
Order of sources
In carrying out subparagraph (a), the Administrator shall first use amounts available for the Information Exchange/Outreach program area. If sufficient amounts are not available for such program area, the Administrator shall use amounts available for the Enforcement program area. If sufficient amounts are not available for either of the preceding program areas, the Administrator shall use amounts available for the Clean Air and Climate program area.
