1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicaid Requiring Expenditures for Public Objectives to be Reflective of Total Spending Act
or the
Medicaid REPORTS Act
.
2.
Requiring States to submit an annual report of sources funds used to finance the non-Federal share of Medicaid
(a)
In general
Section 1903(w)(6) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396b(w)(6)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
(C)
With respect to fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary shall require each State to submit, using formats and standards established and updated as necessary by the Secretary, a report that identifies each source of funds, each entity providing such funds, and the amount of funds from each such source, used by the State to finance the non-Federal share of expenditures under this title. Such report shall provide such information as the Secretary determines is sufficient to ensure the State’s compliance with the requirements of this title applicable to financing such non-Federal share with respect to each of the following sources of funds:
(i)
State appropriations or transfers to the State agency administering the State plan under this title, or to other State agencies or government entities that are used to finance such non-Federal share of payments under this title.
(ii)
Bona fide provider-related donations (as defined in paragraph (2)(B)) and donation revenue (as defined in paragraph (2)(C)).
(iii)
Intergovernmental transfers from units of government within the State.
(iv)
Certified public expenditures from units of government within the State.
(v)
Any other sources as determined necessary by the Secretary.
(D)
The Secretary shall make the information reported under subparagraph (C) publicly available through publication on the Internet site of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
.
(b)
Conforming Amendment
Section 1903(w)(6)(A) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396b(w)(6)(A)
) is amended by inserting
, or are not reported as required under subparagraph (C)
after
this section
.
