1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act
.
2.
Authorization of the National Computer Forensics Institute of the Department of Homeland Security
(a)
In general
Subtitle C of title VIII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 381 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
822.
National Computer Forensics Institute
(a)
In general
There is established in the Department a National Computer Forensics Institute (in this section referred to as the
Institute
), to be operated by the United States Secret Service, for the dissemination of homeland security information related to the investigation and prevention of cyber and electronic crime, including threats of terrorism or acts of terrorism, to educate, train, and equip State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges.
(b)
Functions
The functions of the Institute shall include the following:
(1)
Educating State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges on current—
(A)
cyber and electronic crimes and related threats, including threats of terrorism or acts of terrorism;
(B)
methods for investigating cyber and electronic crimes, including crimes related to threats of terrorism or acts of terrorism, and conducting computer and mobile device forensic examinations; and
(C)
prosecutorial and judicial challenges related to cyber and electronic crimes, and computer and mobile device forensic examinations.
(2)
Training State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers to—
(A)
conduct cyber and electronic crime investigations, including such investigations related to threats of terrorism or acts of terrorism;
(B)
conduct computer and mobile device forensic examinations; and
(C)
respond to network intrusion incidents, including incidents related to threats of terrorism or acts of terrorism.
(3)
Training State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges on methods to obtain, process, store, and admit digital evidence in court.
(c)
Principles
In carrying out the functions under subsection (b), the Institute shall ensure, to the extent practicable, that timely, actionable, and relevant expertise and homeland security information related to cyber and electronic crime, including threats of terrorism or acts of terrorism, is shared with State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges.
(d)
Equipment
The Institute is authorized to provide State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges with computer equipment, hardware, software, manuals, and tools necessary to conduct cyber and electronic crimes investigations and computer and mobile device forensic examinations.
(e)
Electronic crime task forces
The Institute shall facilitate the expansion of the Secret Service’s network of Electronic Crime Task Forces through the addition of task force officers of State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges educated and trained at the Institute, in addition to academia and private sector stakeholders.
.
(b)
No additional funding
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act and the amendment made by this Act. This Act and such amendment shall be carried out using amounts otherwise available for such purposes.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 821 the following new item:
Sec. 822. National Computer Forensics Institute.
.
