1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Act
.
2.
Prohibiting direct solicitation of campaign contributions or funds for Federal election activity by Federal officeholders
(a)
Prohibition
Section 323(e) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (
52 U.S.C. 30125(e)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as paragraphs (3) through (5), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
(2)
Prohibiting direct solicitations for Federal election purposes by Federal officeholders
(A)
Prohibition
In addition to the prohibitions on soliciting funds set forth under paragraph (1), an individual holding Federal office shall not solicit funds directly from any person—
(i)
for or on behalf of any political committee; or
(ii)
for or on behalf of any person for use for Federal election activity (as defined in section 301(20)).
(B)
Rule of construction regarding participation in fundraising events
Nothing in this paragraph may be construed to prohibit an individual holding Federal office from participating in a fundraising event, including planning or attending the event, speaking at the event, or serving as a featured guest at the event, so long as the individual does not engage in any written or verbal solicitation of funds in connection with the event.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment relating to attendance at State and local political party fundraising events
Section 323(e)(4) of such Act (
52 U.S.C. 30125(e)(4)
), as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended—
(1)
by striking
Notwithstanding paragraph (1) or subsection (b)(2)(C),
and inserting
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), paragraph (2), or subsection (b)(2)(C),
; and
(2)
by striking the period at the end and inserting the following:
, so long as, in the case of an individual holding Federal office, the individual does not engage in any written or verbal solicitation of funds in connection with the event.
.
3.
Effective date
The amendments made by this Act shall apply with respect to solicitations made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
