1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
FCC ‘ABCs’ Act of 2015
.
2.
Analysis of benefits and costs in FCC rule making process
(a)
In general
Section 4 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 154
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(p)
(1)
In the case of a proposed or final rule (including a proposed or final amendment to an existing rule) that may have an economically significant impact, the Commission shall include in the notice of proposed rule making or final rule, respectively, an analysis of the benefits and costs of the proposed or final rule that demonstrates that the benefits outweigh the costs, recognizing that some benefits and costs are difficult to quantify.
(2)
For purposes of this subsection, the term
economically significant impact
means an effect on the economy of $100,000,000 or more annually or a material adverse effect on the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities.
.
(b)
No additional appropriations authorized
The amendment made by subsection (a) does not authorize any appropriations for the express purpose, in whole or in part, of carrying out such amendment.
3.
Presumption regarding regulatory forbearance determination
Section 10 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 160
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(f)
Presumption
In making a determination under subsection (a), the Commission shall presume, absent clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, that the requirements for forbearance under such subsection are met.
.
4.
Presumption regarding biennial regulatory review determination
Section 11 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 161
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(c)
Presumption
In making a determination under subsection (a)(2), the Commission shall presume, absent clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, that the regulation is no longer necessary in the public interest as the result of meaningful economic competition between providers of telecommunications service.
.
