1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.
(2)
Employee
The term
employee
means an employee of an enterprise, except that such term does not include any employee who would be defined as a prevailing rate employee (as defined in section 5342(2) of title 5, United States Code) if such employee were employed by an agency (as defined in paragraph (1) of such section).
(3)
Enterprise
The term
enterprise
means—
(A)
the Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof; and
(B)
the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof.
(4)
Executive officer
The term
executive officer
has the same meaning as is given such term in section 1303(12) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (
12 U.S.C. 4502(12)
).
3.
Reasonable pay for executive officers
(a)
Suspension of Current Compensation Packages
The Director shall suspend the compensation packages approved for 2015 for the executive officers of an enterprise and, in lieu of such packages, subject to the limitation under subsection (c), establish a compensation system for the executive officers of such enterprise in accordance with the schedules of compensation and benefits established and adjusted pursuant to section 1206 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (
12 U.S.C. 1833b
).
(b)
Additional requirement
An executive officer of an enterprise shall be subject to section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (
12 U.S.C. 5221
), which relates to executive compensation and corporate governance.
(c)
Limitation on compensation
An executive officer of an enterprise whose compensation package is suspended under subsection (a) shall not be compensated more than the highest compensated employee of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.
4.
Compensation rate of employees of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
(a)
In general
During any period that an enterprise is federally chartered under the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act (
12 U.S.C. 1716 et seq.
) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (
12 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.
), the compensation of the positions held by employees shall be in accordance with this section.
(b)
Conversion of compensation rate for current employees
(1)
In general
Except for as provided in section 3, effective for pay periods beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall fix the rate of basic compensation of positions held by employees performing services for an enterprise as of the date of the enactment of this Act in accordance with the General Schedule set forth in section 5332 of title 5, United States Code. In fixing such rate—
(A)
if the employee is receiving a rate of basic compensation that is less than the minimum rate of basic compensation of the appropriate grade of the General Schedule in which his or her position is placed, such employee’s rate of basic compensation shall be increased to such minimum rate;
(B)
if the employee is receiving a rate of basic compensation that is equal to a rate of basic compensation of the appropriate grade of the General Schedule in which his or her position is placed, such employee’s rate of basic compensation shall be equal to that rate of basic compensation of the appropriate grade of the General Schedule;
(C)
if the employee is receiving a rate of basic compensation that is between 2 rates of basic compensation of the appropriate grade of the General Schedule in which his or her position is placed, such employee’s rate of basic compensation shall be at the higher of those 2 rates under the General Schedule; and
(D)
if the employee is receiving a rate of basic compensation that is in excess of the maximum rate of basic compensation of the appropriate grade of the General Schedule in which his or her position is placed, such employee’s rate of basic compensation shall be reduced to such maximum rate.
(2)
Not considered transfers or promotions
The conversion of positions and employees to the appropriate grades of the General Schedule and the initial adjustment of rates of basic compensation of those positions and employees provided for by this subsection, shall not be considered to be transfers or promotions within the meaning of section 5334(b) of title 5, United States Code, and the regulations issued thereunder.
(3)
Credit for increase in compensation before adjustment
Each employee performing services for an enterprise on the date of the enactment of this Act whose position is converted under this subsection to the General Schedule and who prior to the initial adjustment of his or her rate of basic compensation under paragraph (1) has earned, but has not been credited with, an increase in that rate, shall be granted credit for such increase before his or her rate of basic compensation is initially adjusted under such paragraph.
(4)
Service performed since last compensation increase
Each employee performing services for an enterprise on the date of the enactment of this Act whose position is converted under this subsection to the General Schedule shall be granted credit, for purposes of his or her first step increase under the General Schedule, for all satisfactory service performed since his or her last increase in compensation prior to the initial adjustment of his or her rate of basic compensation under paragraph (1).
(5)
Compensation increase under this section
An increase in the rate of basic compensation by reason of the enactment of paragraph (1) shall not be considered to be an equivalent increase with respect to step increases for employees whose positions are converted to the General Schedule under authority of this subsection.
(c)
New employees
Except for as provided in section 3, the grade and rate of basic pay of any individual beginning employment with an enterprise after the date of enactment of this Act shall be fixed in accordance with the General Schedule set forth in section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.
5.
Fannie and Freddie employees not Federal employees
Any executive officer or employee affected by any provision under sections 3 and 4, respectively, shall not be considered a Federal employee.
