1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Commuter Parity Act of 2015
.
2.
Qualified transportation fringe
(a)
In general
Subsection (f) of
section 132
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
(f)
Qualified transportation fringe
(1)
In general
For purposes of this section, the term
qualified transportation fringe
means any of the following provided by an employer to an employee:
(A)
Transportation in a commuter highway vehicle if such transportation is in connection with travel between the employee’s residence and place of employment.
(B)
Any transit pass.
(C)
Qualified parking.
(D)
Any qualified bicycle commuting reimbursement.
(2)
Limitation on exclusion
The amount of the fringe benefits which are provided by an employer to any employee and which may be excluded from gross income under subsection (a)(5) shall not exceed—
(A)
$235 per month in the case of the aggregate of the benefits described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1),
(B)
$235 per month in the case of qualified parking, and
(C)
$35 per month for qualified bicycle commuting reimbursement.
(3)
Cash reimbursements
For purposes of this subsection, the term
qualified transportation fringe
includes a cash reimbursement by an employer to an employee for a benefit described in paragraph (1). The preceding sentence shall apply to a cash reimbursement for any transit pass only if a voucher or similar item which may be exchanged only for a transit pass is not readily available for direct distribution by the employer to the employee.
(4)
No constructive receipt
No amount shall be included in the gross income of an employee solely because the employee may choose between any qualified transportation fringe and compensation which would otherwise be includible in gross income of such employee.
(5)
Definitions
For purposes of this subsection—
(A)
Transit pass
The term
transit pass
means any pass, token, farecard, voucher, or similar item entitling a person to transportation (or transportation at a reduced price) if such transportation is—
(i)
on mass transit facilities (whether or not publicly owned), or
(ii)
provided by any person in the business of transporting persons for compensation or hire if such transportation is provided in a vehicle meeting the requirements of subparagraph (B)(i).
(B)
Commuter highway vehicle
The term
commuter highway vehicle
means any highway vehicle—
(i)
the seating capacity of which is at least 6 adults (not including the driver), and
(ii)
at least 80 percent of the mileage use of which can reasonably be expected to be—
(I)
for purposes of transporting employees in connection with travel between their residences and their place of employment, and
(II)
on trips during which the number of employees transported for such purposes is at least ½ of the adult seating capacity of such vehicle (not including the driver).
(C)
Qualified parking
The term
qualified parking
means parking provided to an employee on or near the business premises of the employer or on or near a location from which the employee commutes to work by transportation described in subparagraph (A), in a commuter highway vehicle, or by carpool. Such term shall not include any parking on or near property used by the employee for residential purposes.
(D)
Transportation provided by employer
Transportation referred to in paragraph (1)(A) shall be considered to be provided by an employer if such transportation is furnished in a commuter highway vehicle operated by or for the employer.
(E)
Employee
For purposes of this subsection, the term
employee
includes an individual who is an employee within the meaning of section 401(c)(1).
(F)
Qualified bicycle commuting reimbursement
For the purposes of this subsection, the term
qualified bicycle commuting reimbursement
means any employer reimbursement for reasonable expenses incurred by the employee for the purchase of a bicycle and bicycle improvements, repair, and storage, or bikesharing program, if such bicycle is regularly used for travel between the employee’s residence and place of employment.
(6)
Inflation adjustment
(A)
In general
In the case of any taxable year beginning in a calendar year after 2016, the dollar amounts contained in paragraph (2) shall be increased by an amount equal to—
(i)
such dollar amount, multiplied by
(ii)
the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which the taxable year begins, by substituting
calendar year 2015
for
calendar year 1992
.
(B)
Rounding
If any increase determined under subparagraph (A) is not a multiple of $5, such increase shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple of $5.
(7)
Coordination with other provisions
For purposes of this section, the terms
working condition fringe
and
de minimis fringe
shall not include any qualified transportation fringe (determined without regard to paragraph (2)).
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
Sections 403(b)(3)(B), 414(s)(2), 415(c)(3)(D)(ii) of such Code are each amended by striking
132(f)(4),
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to months beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act, in taxable years ending after such date.
