1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing the Cities Act of 2015
.
2.
Securing the Cities program
(a)
In general
Title XIX of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 591 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
1908.
Securing the Cities program
(a)
Establishment
The Director for Domestic Nuclear Detection shall establish the
Securing the Cities
(
STC
) program to enhance the ability of the United States to detect and prevent terrorist attacks and other high consequence events utilizing nuclear or other radiological materials that pose a high risk to homeland security in high-risk urban areas. Through such program the Director shall—
(1)
assist State, local, tribal, and territorial governments in designing and implementing, or enhancing existing, architectures for coordinated and integrated detection and interdiction of nuclear or other radiological materials that are out of regulatory control;
(2)
support the development of a region-wide operating capability to detect and report on nuclear and other radioactive materials out of operational control;
(3)
provide resources to enhance detection, analysis, communication, and coordination to better integrate State, local, tribal, and territorial assets into Federal operations;
(4)
facilitate alarm adjudication and provide subject matter expertise and technical assistance on concepts of operations, training, exercises, and alarm response protocols;
(5)
communicate with, and promote sharing of information about the presence or detection of nuclear or other radiological materials among appropriate Federal, State, local, tribal, and territorial governments, in a manner that ensures transparency with the jurisdictions served by such program; and
(6)
provide any other assistance the Director determines appropriate.
(b)
Designation of jurisdictions
In carrying out the program under subsection (a), the Director shall designate jurisdictions from among high-risk urban areas under section 2003, and other cities and regions, as appropriate.
(c)
Congressional notification
The Director shall notify the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate not later than three days before the designation of new jurisdictions under subsection (b) or other changes to participating jurisdictions.
(d)
GAO report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional committees specified in subsection (c) an assessment, including an evaluation of the effectiveness, of the STC program under this section.
(e)
Prohibition on additional funding
No funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section. This section shall be carried out using amounts otherwise appropriated or made available for such purpose.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1907 the following new item:
Sec. 1908. Securing the Cities program.
.
