1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improved Security Vetting for Aviation Workers Act of 2015
.
2.
Aviation security
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title XVI of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 561 et seq.
) is amended by adding after section 1601 the following new section:
1602.
Vetting of aviation workers
(a)
In general
By not later than December 31, 2015, the Administrator shall coordinate with the Secretary and the Interagency Policy Committee to determine whether the Administrator should receive additional Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment (TIDE) data or other terrorism related category codes to assist in the Administration’s credential vetting program for individuals with access to sensitive areas of airports.
(b)
Security inspection
By not later than December 31, 2015, the Administrator shall issue guidance for Transportation Security Inspectors to annually review airport badging office procedures for applicants seeking access to sensitive areas of airports. Such guidance shall include a comprehensive review of applicants’ Criminal History Records Check (CHRC) and work authorization documentation during the course of an inspection.
(c)
Information sharing
By not later than December 31, 2015, the Administrator shall coordinate with the Secretary and consult with the Federal Bureau of Investigation to conduct a pilot program of the Rap Back Service to determine the feasibility of full implementation of such Service across eligible Administration regulated populations.
(d)
Credential security
By not later than September 30, 2015, the Administrator shall issue guidance to airports mandating that all federalized airport badging authorities place an expiration date on airport credentials commensurate with the period of time during which an individual is lawfully authorized to work in the United States.
(e)
Aviation worker lawful status
By not later than December 31, 2015, the Administrator shall review the denial of credentials due to issues associated with determining an applicant’s lawful status in order to identify airports with specific weaknesses and shall coordinate with such airports to mutually address such weaknesses, as appropriate.
(f)
Reports to Congress
Upon completion of the determinations and reviews required under this section, the Administrator shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the results of such determinations and reviews.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1601 the following new item:
Sec. 1602. Vetting of aviation workers.
.
