1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Mining Schools Enhancement Act
.
2.
Support for mining schools
Section 721 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (
30 U.S.C. 1309b
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
The Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
and inserting the following:
(a)
In general
Subject to subsection (b), the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(b)
Mining program support
(1)
Of the amounts made available under this Act for activities authorized under this section, the Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement shall ensure that at least 70 percent is expended to enhance and support mining and mineral engineering programs in the United States by funding activities at mining schools.
(2)
In expending funds under this section, the Director shall consult with relevant stakeholders and ensure a significant opportunity for participation by undergraduate and graduate students at mining schools.
(3)
The Director shall ensure that the activities conducted under this section relate to conventional fuel resource development and production, and include—
(A)
studies of mining, mineral extraction efficiency, and related processing technology;
(B)
mineral economics, reclamation technology, and practices for active mining operations;
(C)
the development of remining systems and technologies that facilitate reclamation that fosters the recovery of resources at abandoned mine sites;
(D)
investigations of mineral resource extraction methods that reduce environmental and human impacts;
(E)
reducing dependence on foreign energy supplies; and
(F)
enhancing the competitiveness of United States energy technology exports.
(c)
Mining school defined
In this section the term
mining school
means a mining or mineral engineering program or department accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, Inc., that is located at an institution of higher education (as that term is defined in section 631(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1132(a)
)) in the United States.
.
