1.
Authority to recoup relocation expenses paid to or on behalf of employees of Department of Veterans
Affairs
(a)
In general
Chapter 7
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
715.
Recoupment of relocation expenses paid on behalf of employees of Department
(a)
Recoupment
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may direct an employee of the Department to repay the amount, or a portion of the amount, paid to or on behalf of the employee under title 5 for relocation expenses, including any expenses under section 5724 or 5724a of such title, or this title if—
(1)
the Secretary determines such repayment appropriate pursuant to regulations prescribed under subsection (c); and
(2)
before such repayment, the employee is afforded notice and an opportunity for a hearing conducted by another department or agency of the Federal Government.
(b)
Review
A decision regarding a repayment by an employee pursuant to subsection (a)(2) is final and may not be reviewed by any department or agency or any court.
(c)
Regulations
The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is further amended by adding at the end the following new item:
715. Recoupment of relocation expenses paid to or on behalf of employees of Department.
.
(c)
Effective date
Section 715 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to an amount paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to or on behalf of an employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs for relocation expenses before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Construction
Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act may be construed to modify the certification issued by the Office of Personnel Management and the Office of Management and Budget regarding the performance appraisal system of the Senior Executive Service of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
