1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Returned Exclusively For Unpaid National Debt Act
or the
REFUND Act
.
2.
Use of unwanted Federal funds to reduce Federal debt
(a)
Rescission of unwanted Federal funds
There is rescinded, from any Federal funds required to be allocated by formula among all States that agree to use such funds for a specified purpose, an amount equal to the amount of such funds that would have otherwise been allocated to a State that identifies such funds under subsection (b) as unwanted.
(b)
Identification of funds
Subsection (a) shall only apply if, not later than the last date on which an application or State plan is required to be submitted in order for a State to be allocated, in an annual or biennial budget cycle, funds described in such subsection—
(1)
the State legislature with jurisdiction over such budget cycle adopts a concurrent resolution identifying the funds as unwanted; and
(2)
the State submits notice of the resolution described in paragraph (1) to the agency head responsible for allocation of the funds, in such form and manner and containing such information as the agency head determines appropriate to make the determination in subsection (c).
(c)
Determination of amount To be rescinded
An agency head that receives notice described in subsection (b)(2) shall determine and report to the Office of Management and Budget the amount to be rescinded under subsection (a).
(d)
Use for reduction of Federal debt
Amounts rescinded under subsection (a) shall be deposited by the Secretary of the Treasury in the account entitled
Gifts to the United States for Reduction of the Public Debt
and used to reduce the Federal debt as provided in section 3113(d) of title 31, United States Code.
(e)
Annual report
The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Congress each year a report identifying the amount deposited in the Treasury under subsection (d) with respect to each State in such year.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
agency head
means the head of an agency of the Federal Government.
(2)
The term
State
means—
(A)
each of the several States;
(B)
the District of Columbia; or
(C)
any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
