1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
States Against Drunk Driving Act of 2016
or the
SADD Act of 2016
.
2.
Supplemental Byrne JAG award for States reporting DUI convictions
(a)
Supplemental award
To the extent and in the amount provided in advance in appropriations Acts, and in addition to the amounts otherwise allocated under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 3750 et seq.
), the Attorney General shall award to a State, for a fiscal year, a supplemental award of funds equal to 5 percent of the allocation to that State for that fiscal year under section 505(a)(1)(A) of such subpart. Such supplemental award shall be treated as provided under section 505(b)(1).
(b)
Eligibility
To be eligible for a supplemental award under subsection (a), a State shall, in the prior fiscal year—
(1)
maintain an effective reporting rate for DUI convictions of not less than 90 percent; and
(2)
have in effect a law or policy requiring that a DUI conviction shall be taken into account, for a period of not less than 10 years after the date on which such conviction is entered, for purposes of any sentencing enhancement under the criminal law of that State.
3.
Definition
In this Act:
(1)
The term
DUI conviction
means, in the case of a State, a criminal conviction under the law of that State for operating a motor vehicle under the influence of a drug or alcohol.
(2)
The term
effective reporting rate for DUI convictions
means, in the case of a State, the percentage of DUI convictions entered in that State for a fiscal year that the State has reported to the Attorney General. For purposes of this paragraph, a DUI conviction shall only be considered to be reported if that report is made not later than 30 days after the date such conviction is entered.
4.
Authorization of Appropriations
(a)
In general
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $9,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021.
(b)
Offset
No funds are authorized to be appropriated for the Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation Program for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021.
