1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act
.
2.
Action on applications
(a)
Decision deadline
For proposals that must also obtain authorization from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or
the United States Maritime Administration to site, construct, expand, or
operate LNG export facilities, the Department of Energy shall issue a
final decision on any application for the authorization to export natural
gas under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b
) not later than
30 days after the later of—
(1)
the conclusion of the review to site, construct, expand, or operate the LNG facilities required by
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
);
or
(2)
the date of enactment of this Act.
(b)
Conclusion of review
For purposes of subsection (a), review required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
shall be considered concluded—
(1)
for a project requiring an Environmental Impact Statement, 30 days after publication of a Final
Environmental Impact Statement;
(2)
for a project for which an Environmental Assessment has been prepared, 30 days after publication by
the Department of Energy of a Finding of No Significant Impact; and
(3)
upon a determination by the lead agency that an application is eligible for a categorical exclusion
pursuant to National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 implementing
regulations.
(c)
Judicial action
(1)
The United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the export facility will be located
pursuant to an application described in subsection (a) shall have original
and exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action for the review of—
(A)
an order issued by the Department of Energy with respect to such application; or
(B)
the Department of Energy’s failure to issue a final decision on such application.
(2)
If the Court in a civil action described in paragraph (1) finds that the Department of Energy has
failed to issue a final decision on the application as required under
subsection (a), the Court shall order the Department of Energy to issue
such final decision not later than 30 days after the Court’s order.
(3)
The Court shall set any civil action brought under this subsection for expedited consideration and
shall set the matter on the docket as soon as practical after the filing
date of the initial pleading.
3.
Public disclosure of export destinations
Section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(g)
Public disclosure of LNG export destinations
As a condition for approval of any authorization to export LNG, the Secretary of Energy shall
require the applicant to publicly disclose the specific destination or
destinations of any such authorized LNG exports.
.
