1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preserving Investment in Needy Neighborhoods Act
.
2.
Exclusion of contributions to capital of partnership
(a)
In general
Subsection (a) of
section 118
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, and, in the case of a partnership, gross income shall not include contributions to the capital of the partnership
.
(b)
Basis of property contributed to partnership
Section 723 of such Code is amended—
(1)
by striking
The basis of property
and inserting the following:
(a)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (b), the basis of property
, and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
Contributions to capital
(1)
Property other than money
If property other than money—
(A)
is acquired by a partnership as a contribution to capital, and
(B)
is not contributed by a partner as such,
then the basis of such property shall be zero.
(2)
Money
If money—
(A)
is received by a partnership as a contribution to capital, and
(B)
is not contributed by a partner as such,
then the basis of any property acquired with such money during the 12-month period beginning on the
day the contribution is received shall be reduced by the amount of such
contribution. The excess (if any) of the amount of such contribution over
the amount of the reduction under the preceding sentence shall be applied
to the reduction (as of the last day of the period specified in the
preceding sentence) of the basis of any other property of the partnership.
The particular properties to which the reductions required by this
paragraph shall be allocated shall be determined under regulations
prescribed by the Secretary.
.
(c)
No increase in basis of partner’s interest
Subparagraph (B) of section 705(a)(1) of such Code is amended by inserting
(other than amounts excluded from gross income under section 118)
after
exempt from tax under this title
.
(d)
Conforming amendment
The heading for section 118 of such Code is amended by striking
of a corporation
and inserting
of corporations and partnerships
.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to contributions made after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(f)
No inference
Nothing contained in this section or the amendments made by this section shall be construed to create any inference under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to the treatment of contributions to the capital of partnerships made on or before the date of the enactment of this Act.
