117 HRES 1099 IH: Expressing support for recognizing the “Police Unity Tour”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-05-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1099
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 10, 2022
Mr. Garbarino
(for himself,
Mr. Guest
,
Mr. Van Drew
,
Mr. Bacon
,
Ms. Malliotakis
,
Mr. Katko
,
Ms. Stefanik
,
Mrs. Miller-Meeks
,
Ms. Tenney
,
Mr. Jacobs of New York
, and
Mr. Zeldin
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for recognizing the
Police Unity Tour
.
Whereas Federal, State, local, and Tribal police officers, sheriffs, and other law enforcement officers across the United States serve with valor, dignity, and integrity;
Whereas, in 1997, Officer Patrick P. Montuore of the Florham Park Police Department organized the
Police Unity Tour
from Florham Park, New Jersey, to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in the District of Columbia, with the hope of bringing public awareness of police officers who have died in the line of duty and to honor their sacrifices;
Whereas today, the
Police Unity Tour
has over 1,900 members nationwide who make the trip;
Whereas, as of May 2020, the
Police Unity Tour
has donated over 30,000,000 dollars for the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund;
Whereas the New York chapter of the
Police Unity Tour
, Chapter 37, was started by Port Authority (PA) police officers in 2002 and named in honor of the 37 PA officers who were killed in the line of duty on September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center; and
Whereas the original members of Chapter 37 pledged to always start their
Police Unity Tour
at the World Trade Center to honor, respect, and remember the officers who lost their lives on September 11, 2001, and
We will never forget.
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
expresses support for recognizing the
Police Unity Tour
;
(2)
expresses unwavering support for law enforcement officers across the United States in the pursuit of preserving safe and secure communities;
(3)
acknowledges that police officers and other law enforcement personnel, especially those who have made the ultimate sacrifice, should be remembered and honored;
(4)
expresses condolences and solemn appreciation to the loved ones of each law enforcement officer who has made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty, especially those who lost their lives on September 11, 2001; and
(5)
encourages the people of the United States to recognize the
Police Unity Tour
by honoring law enforcement personnel and promoting awareness of the essential mission that law enforcement personnel undertake in service to their communities and the United States.
