117 HRES 1264 IH: Of inquiry requesting the President to transmit to the House of Representatives certain documents relating to misinformation and the preservation of free speech.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-26
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1264
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 26, 2022
Mr. Carter of Georgia
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry requesting the President to transmit to the House of Representatives certain documents relating to misinformation and the preservation of free speech.
That the President of the United States is requested to transmit to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, record, audio recording, memorandum, call log, correspondence (electronic or otherwise), or other communication in his possession, or any portion of any document, record, audio recording, memorandum, call log, correspondence (electronic or otherwise), or other communication, that refers or relates to the communication or coordination between the personnel of the Executive Office of the President and the personnel of the Federal Communications Commission with respect to the following:
(1)
Regulation of programming decisions by multichannel video programming distributors relating to misinformation.
(2)
Regulation of programming decisions by broadcast stations relating to misinformation.
(3)
Regulation of programming decisions by providers of video streaming services and other over-the-top video programming distributors.
(4)
Issuing any rule, regulation, policy, doctrine, standard, or other requirement that has the purpose or effect of reinstating or repromulgating (in whole or in part) the requirement that broadcast stations present opposing viewpoints on controversial issues of public importance, commonly referred to as the
Fairness Doctrine
, as repealed in General Fairness Doctrine Obligations of Broadcast Licensees, 50 Fed. Reg. 35418 (1985).
(5)
Requesting that action be taken by the Federal Communications Commission related to the regulation of Big Tech.
(6)
Any discussion of preservation of the First Amendment to the Constitution.
