117 HRES 331 : Raising a question of the privileges of the House.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-04-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 331
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 20, 2021
Mr. McCarthy
(for himself,
Mr. Emmer
,
Mr. Hagedorn
,
Mr. Stauber
, and
Mrs. Fischbach
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ethics
April 20, 2021
The Committee on Ethics discharged; considered and laid on the table
RESOLUTION
Raising a question of the privileges of the House.
Whereas on the evening of April 17, 2021, Representative Maxine M. Waters of California joined protestors in Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, who were gathered outside the Brooklyn Center Police Department;
Whereas Representative Maxine M. Waters said, ГўВҖВңWeГўВҖВҷre looking for a guilty verdictГўВҖВқ in the trial of Derek Chauvin;
Whereas Representative Maxine M. Waters said that if there was not a guilty verdict, protestors on the street should ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҰ Stay on the street, and weГўВҖВҷve got to get more active, weГўВҖВҷve got to get more confrontational, weГўВҖВҷve got to make sure they know we mean business.ГўВҖВқ;
Whereas, on April 19, 2021, the judge in the trial of Derek Chauvin, Judge Peter Cahill, said in reply to Derek ChauvinГўВҖВҷs defense attorney, ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВҷll give you that Congresswoman Waters may have given you something on appeal that may result in this whole trial being overturned.ГўВҖВқ;
Whereas Judge Cahill stated,
I wish elected officials would stop talking about this case, especially in a manner that is disrespectful to the rule of law and to the judicial branch and our function.
; and
Whereas Judge Cahill stated, ГўВҖВңI think if they want to give their opinions, they should do so in a respectful manner, and in a manner that is consistent with their oath to the Constitution. To respect the coequal branch of government. Their failure to do so I think is abhorrent.ГўВҖВқ: Now, therefore, be it
ThatГўВҖВ”
(1)
Representative Maxine M. Waters of California be censured;
(2)
Representative Maxine M. Waters forthwith present herself in the well of the House for the pronouncement of censure; and
(3)
Representative Maxine M. Waters be censured with the public reading of this resolution by the Speaker.
