117 HRES 1136 IH: Establishing a Women’s Bill of Rights to reaffirm legal protections afforded to women under Federal law.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-05-19
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1136
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 19, 2022
Mrs. Lesko
(for herself,
Mr. Banks
,
Mrs. Miller of Illinois
,
Mrs. Harshbarger
,
Ms. Tenney
,
Mrs. Hartzler
,
Mr. Lamborn
,
Mr. Jackson
,
Mr. LaMalfa
,
Mrs. Spartz
,
Mr. Norman
, and
Mr. Moore of Alabama
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Establishing a Women’s Bill of Rights to reaffirm legal protections afforded to women under Federal law.
Whereas males and females possess unique and immutable biological differences that manifest prior to birth and increase as they age and experience puberty;
Whereas biological differences between the sexes mean that only females may get pregnant, give birth, and breastfeed children;
Whereas biological differences between the sexes mean that males are, on average, larger in size and possess greater body strength than females;
Whereas biological differences between the sexes can expose females to more harm than males from specific forms of violence, including sexual violence;
Whereas women have achieved inspirational and significant accomplishments in education, athletics, and employment; and
Whereas recent misguided court rulings related to the definition of
sex
have led to endangerment of spaces and resources dedicated to women, thereby necessitating clarification of certain terms: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives reaffirms that—
(1)
for purposes of Federal law, a person’s
sex
means his or her biological sex (either male or female) at birth;
(2)
for purposes of Federal law addressing sex, the terms
woman
and
girl
refer to human females, and the terms
man
and
boy
refer to human males;
(3)
for purposes of Federal law, the word
mother
means a parent of the female sex and
father
is defined as a parent of the male sex;
(4)
there are important reasons to distinguish between the sexes with respect to athletics, prisons, domestic violence shelters, restrooms, and other areas, particularly where biology, safety, and privacy are implicated;
(5)
policies and laws that distinguish between the sexes are subject to intermediate constitutional scrutiny and permitted when they serve an important governmental objective and are substantially related to achieving that objective; and
(6)
for purposes of complying with Federal laws that require State and local government agencies to collect or report data disaggregated by sex, such as Federal antidiscrimination laws, agencies are required to base such data on the biological sex of individuals at birth.
