117 HRES 1238 IH: Of inquiry requesting the President to provide certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the October 4, 2021 memorandum issued by the Attorney General entitled “Partnership Among Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Law Enforcement to Address Threats Against School Administrators, Board Members, Teachers, and Staff”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1238
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 20, 2022
Mr. Fitzgerald
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry requesting the President to provide certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the October 4, 2021 memorandum issued by the Attorney General entitled
Partnership Among Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Law Enforcement to Address Threats Against School Administrators, Board Members, Teachers, and Staff
.
That the President of the United States is requested to furnish the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, record, audio recording, memorandum, call log, correspondence (electronic or otherwise), or other communication in his possession, or any portion of any document, record, audio recording, memorandum, call log, correspondence (electronic or otherwise), or other communication, that refers or relates to the following:
(1)
The memorandum issued by the Attorney General, dated October 4, 2021, entitled
Partnership Among Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Law Enforcement to Address Threats Against School Administrators, Board Members, Teachers, and Staff
.
(2)
Communication or coordination between the Executive Office of the President and the Department of Justice regarding the Attorney General’s memorandum, dated October 4, 2021.
(3)
Communication or coordination between the Executive Office of the President and the National School Boards Association regarding threats at school board meetings or the Attorney General’s memorandum, dated October 4, 2021.
(4)
Communication or coordination between the Executive Office of the President and the National School Boards Association regarding threats at school board meetings or letter dated the September 29, 2021, from Dr. Viola M. Garcia and Chip Slaven to President Joseph R. Biden.
(5)
Communication or coordination between the Executive Office of the President and the Department of Justice regarding threats at school board meetings or the letter, dated September 29, 2021, from Dr. Viola M. Garcia and Chip Slaven to President Joseph R. Biden.
(6)
The appointment of Dr. Viola M. Garcia to the National Assessment Governing Board.
(7)
Communications sent or received or documents in the possession of Mary C. Wall regarding threats at school board meetings, the letter, dated September 29, 2021, from Dr. Viola M. Garcia and Chip Slaven to President Joseph R. Biden, or the Attorney General’s memorandum, dated October 4, 2021.
