117 HRES 1194 IH: Commending the Florida Everblades hockey team for winning the 2022 East Coast Hockey League’s Patrick J. Kelly Cup.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-06-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1194
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 21, 2022
Mr. Donalds
(for himself,
Ms. Salazar
, and
Mr. Rutherford
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform
RESOLUTION
Commending the Florida Everblades hockey team for winning the 2022 East Coast Hockey League’s Patrick J. Kelly Cup.
Whereas, on June 11, 2022, the Florida Everblades hockey team won the 2022 Kelly Cup by defeating the Toledo Walleye by a score of 4 to 2 at Hertz Arena in Estero, Florida;
Whereas the Everblades finished the championship game holding their opponents scoreless for the final 2 periods;
Whereas the victory by the Everblades in the championship game—
(1)
marked the second time in 10 years that the Everblades have claimed an East Coast Hockey League (ECHL) championship; and
(2)
was the Everblades’ fifth appearance in the Kelly Cup finals;
Whereas the head coach of the Florida Everblades, Brad Ralph, has been a stellar role model and fierce leader to the Everblades players and the community;
Whereas Cam Johnson, the 2022 Kelly Cup Playoffs Most Valuable Player, gave an outstanding performance with 36 saves out of 38 shots on goal;
Whereas Zach Solow scored 2 of the team’s 4 first-period goals;
Whereas the Florida Everblades displayed elite sportsmanship, ferocious dedication, and outstanding teamwork this ECHL season in achieving the highest honor in the league; and
Whereas the Everblades have brought immense pride and honor to the State of Florida: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends the Florida Everblades for winning the 2022 Patrick J. Kelly Cup;
(2)
recognizes the on-ice and off-ice achievements of the players, coaches, and staff of the Florida Everblades; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Clerk of the House of Representatives transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the owner of the Florida Everblades, David Hoffmann; and
(B)
the head coach of the Florida Everblades, Brad Ralph.
