117 HRES 1164 IH: Condemning Charles “Chuck” Schumer, Senator of New York.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-06-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1164
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 9, 2022
Mr. Biggs
(for himself,
Mr. Bishop of North Carolina
,
Mrs. Greene of Georgia
,
Mrs. Boebert
,
Mr. Clyde
,
Mr. Duncan
,
Mr. Steube
,
Mrs. Hartzler
,
Mrs. Miller of Illinois
,
Mr. Good of Virginia
,
Mr. Norman
,
Mr. Carey
, and
Mr. Hice of Georgia
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Condemning Charles
Chuck
Schumer, Senator of New York.
Whereas Senator Schumer participated in a rally outside of the Supreme Court of the United States on March 4, 2020, at which he directed a threat at Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh;
Whereas Senator Schumer specifically stated,
I want to tell you, Gorsuch. I want to tell you, Kavanaugh. You have released the whirlwind, and you will pay the price. You won’t know what hit you if you go forward with these awful decisions.
;
Whereas elected officials, including Majority Whip Steve Scalise and Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, have already been victims of physical violence rooted in political disagreement;
Whereas, on June 8, 2022, Nicholas Roske went to the home of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh with a suitcase and backpack containing a black tactical chest rig and tactical knife, a Glock 17 pistol with two magazines and ammunition, pepper spray, zip ties, a hammer, a screwdriver, nail punch, crow bar, pistol light, duct tape, and other items;
Whereas, on June 8, 2022, Nicholas Roske was arrested after telling a call taker at the Montgomery County Emergency Communications Center that he came to Maryland from California to kill Justice Brett Kavanaugh;
Whereas Nicholas Roske has been charged with attempt to murder a United States Supreme Court Justice;
Whereas Senator Schumer’s comments may have contributed to Nicholas Roske’s desire to kill Justice Kavanaugh;
Whereas Senator Schumer is the leader of his conference in the Senate and is held to a higher standard for his colleagues and the American people to follow;
Whereas Senator Schumer’s comments are in direct conflict with the constitutional process by which cases are deliberated and verdicts are issued by the Supreme Court; and
Whereas Senator Schumer’s comments set the foundation for public unrest: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
the House of Representatives condemns Senator Charles
Chuck
Schumer for rhetoric that threatens two Supreme Court justices and incites public discord, and is not befitting an elected Member of the Congress; and
(2)
it is the sense of the House of Representatives that Charles
Chuck
Schumer, Senator of New York, should—
(A)
issue a formal apology to Justice Kavanaugh and Justice Gorsuch for making threats and sowing seeds of discord; and
(B)
issue a public statement that threats towards members of any of the three branches of the Federal Government are not an appropriate reaction for anyone—especially those in elected office—to express disagreement with any duly elected or appointed member of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch.
