117 HRES 1298 IH: Of inquiry directing the Secretary of the Treasury to transmit certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the role of the Department of the Treasury in the Paycheck Protection Program of the Small Business Administration.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1298
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 28, 2022
Mr. Luetkemeyer
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Small Business
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry directing the Secretary of the Treasury to transmit certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the role of the Department of the Treasury in the Paycheck Protection Program of the Small Business Administration.
That the Secretary of the Treasury is directed to transmit to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, memorandum, correspondence, and other communication or any portion of any such communication in the possession of the Secretary that refers or relates to the role of the Department of the Treasury with respect to the loan programs established under paragraphs (36) and (37) of section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)
) (commonly known as the
Paycheck Protection Program
), including—
(1)
all such communications between the Department of the Treasury and the Small Business Administration relating to the Paycheck Protection Program;
(2)
all such documents and communications relating to the obligation of the Secretary of the Treasury to testify before the Small Business Committee of the House of Representatives as required by section 321(b) of the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act (
15 U.S.C. 639b(b)
); and
(3)
all such documents and communications relating to the role of the Secretary of the Treasury in administering the Paycheck Protection Program.
