117 HRES 732 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that it is the duty of Congress to uphold the Constitution and principles on which the United States of America was founded and that nothing in the Constitution or Declaration of Independence is meant to be construed as racist or harmful.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-10-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 732
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 21, 2021
Mr. Cawthorn
(for himself,
Mr. Weber of Texas
,
Mr. Babin
, and
Mrs. Lesko
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that it is the duty of Congress to uphold the Constitution and principles on which the United States of America was founded and that nothing in the Constitution or Declaration of Independence is meant to be construed as racist or harmful.
Whereas it is the duty of Congress to uphold the Constitution and principles on which the United States of America was founded;
Whereas no idea in the Constitution, Declaration of Independence, or Bill of Rights is meant to be construed as racist;
Whereas the principles contained in America’s founding documents actually served as a force for liberation and not tyranny;
Whereas this idea is premised on the fact that abolitionists and proponents for civil rights continually cited these founding documents as inspiration in their struggle against repression;
Whereas the society of the United States is built on the ideals of equality, tolerance, and acceptance;
Whereas the National Archives and Records Administration recently put a
harmful content
warning label on the founding documents of the United States;
Whereas this type of censorship showcases a frightening ignorance of the true history of the United States;
Whereas Congress is proud of the founding documents and the freedom guaranteed to Americans within these documents;
Whereas all Americans should be grateful for the sacrifices of those who gave their lives in defense of the Constitution and the spread of freedom; and
Whereas this censorship betrays the harmful nature of progressive skepticism of American exceptionalism: Now, therefore, be it
That is the sense of the House of Representatives that—
(1)
it is the duty of Congress to uphold the Constitution and principles on which the United States of America was founded; and
(2)
nothing in the Constitution or Declaration of Independence is meant to be construed as racist or harmful.
