117 HRES 1258 IH: Of inquiry directing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide certain documentation to the House of Representatives relating to the calculation of certain expenditure limitations applicable to Federal funding of the Medicaid program in Puerto Rico.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-26
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1258
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 26, 2022
Mr. Dunn
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry directing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide certain documentation to the House of Representatives relating to the calculation of certain expenditure limitations applicable to Federal funding of the Medicaid program in Puerto Rico.
That the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to herein as the
Secretary
) is directed to furnish to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, record, audio recording, memorandum, call log, correspondence (electronic or otherwise), or other communication in the Secretary’s possession, or any portion of any document, record, audio recording, memorandum, call log, correspondence (electronic or otherwise), or other communication in the Secretary’s possession, that refers or relates to any of the following:
(1)
Communication by the Department of Health and Human Services with any person outside of such Department that occurred prior to September 7, 2021, regarding interpretations of section 1108 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1308
), insofar as such interpretations pertained to calculation of the limit imposed under such section on the total amount of funds allowed to be certified by the Secretary under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
) for Puerto Rico for fiscal year 2022 and subsequent fiscal years.
(2)
Internal communications among employees of the Department of Health and Human Services that occurred prior to September 7, 2021, regarding interpretations described in paragraph (1), insofar as such interpretations pertained to the calculation described in such paragraph.
(3)
Communication by the Department of Health and Human Services with the Government Accountability Office regarding interpretations described in paragraph (1), insofar as such interpretations pertained to the calculation described in such paragraph, made by the Comptroller General of the United States, as required by section 3105(b) of the Extending Government Funding and Delivering Emergency Assistance Act (
Public Law 117–43
).
