117 HRES 1318 IH: Impeaching Merrick Brian Garland, Attorney General of the United States, for endangering, compromising, and undermining the justice system of the United States by facilitating the persecution of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.’s, political rival, Donald J. Trump, the 45th President of the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-08-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1318
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
August 12, 2022
Mrs. Greene of Georgia
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Impeaching Merrick Brian Garland, Attorney General of the United States, for endangering, compromising, and undermining the justice system of the United States by facilitating the persecution of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.’s, political rival, Donald J. Trump, the 45th President of the United States.
That Merrick Brian Garland, Attorney General of the United States, is impeached for endangering, compromising, and undermining the justice system of the United States by facilitating the persecution of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.’s, political rival, Donald J. Trump, the 45th President of the United States, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Merrick Brian Garland, Attorney General of the United States of America, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for endangering, compromising, and undermining the justice system of the United States by facilitating the persecution of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.’s, political rival, Donald J. Trump, the 45th President of the United States.
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and that the Attorney General, as a civil officer of the United States,
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
.
In his conduct as Attorney General of the United States, in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the office of the Attorney General of the United States, and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend, the Constitution of the United States, Merrick Brian Garland continues to materially endanger the justice system of the United States and empower President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., to persecute his political adversaries at will.
Article I
Attorney General Garland’s personal approval to seek a search warrant for the raid on the home of the 45th President of the United States, Donald J. Trump, constitutes a blatant attempt to persecute a political opponent.
Rather than adhering to an oath he took to defend and secure our country and uphold the Constitution when he was sworn in as Attorney General on March 11, 2021, Attorney General Garland has willingly refused to ensure that the laws passed by Congress and signed by the President are faithfully executed.
Attorney General Garland has failed to uphold his oath and has instead overseen a denigration of the principles of our democratic republic by politicizing the Department of Justice, and utilizing the Federal Bureau of Investigation as a Federal police force to punish or intimidate anyone who questions or opposes the current regime.
Attorney General Garland has taken measures to silence the voice of millions of citizens of the United States by persecuting the former duly elected and lawful President of the United States, and potential Presidential candidate, Donald J. Trump.
Article II
The Supreme Court upheld in Department of the Navy v. Egan that the President, as Commander in Chief, has the power to control the classification and declassification of documents pertaining to national security.
The Executive Vesting Clause of the Constitution grants the President the authority to declassify documents in the public interest that originated in any department or agency of the executive branch, pursuant to Executive Order 13526.
Attorney General Garland, in persecuting former President Donald J. Trump over documents he legally declassified, has engaged in a pattern of conduct that is incompatible with his duties as a civil officer of the United States.
Attorney General Garland, in his failure to uphold the oath he took, has, by his actions, lost the trust of citizens of the United States to faithfully execute the laws of the United States without partisan bias.
Attorney General Garland’s effort to unseal the search warrant for the home of former President Donald J. Trump constitutes an attempt to intimidate, harass, and potentially disqualify a political challenger to President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.
Attorney General Garland’s actions run counter to the steps that employees of the executive branch must take to avoid
an appearance of loss of impartiality
.
Attorney General Garland’s failure to address the conflict of interest arising from the persecution of his employer, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.’s, political adversary, Donald J. Trump, demonstrates that he is unfit to hold the office of Attorney General.
Attorney General Garland, by such conduct, has demonstrated that he will remain a threat to the justice system of the United States of America if allowed to remain in office, and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with democracy, self-governance, and the rule of law.
Wherefore, Merrick Brian Garland, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
