117 HRES 1486 IH: Honoring the victims of the devastating attack that took place at the Waukesha, Wisconsin, Christmas parade on November 21, 2021.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-11-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1486
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 17, 2022
Mr. Fitzgerald
(for himself,
Mr. Tiffany
,
Ms. Moore of Wisconsin
,
Mr. Pocan
,
Mr. Steil
,
Mr. Grothman
,
Mr. Gallagher
, and
Mr. Kind
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform
RESOLUTION
Honoring the victims of the devastating attack that took place at the Waukesha, Wisconsin, Christmas parade on November 21, 2021.
Whereas, on November 21, 2021, in Waukesha, Wisconsin, an individual committed intentional homicide on parade participants and attendees, killing 6 people and leaving 62 others with injuries;
Whereas the attack occurred during the 58th annual Waukesha Christmas parade, a tradition that featured over 60 local civic groups, businesses, schools, public services, and entertainers;
Whereas Virginia Sorenson was a cherished long-time member of Milwaukee’s Dancing Grannies and longtime choreographer for the group;
Whereas Tamara Durand was a new member of Milwaukee’s Dancing Grannies who volunteered for local hospitals and the Red Cross while caring for her grandson;
Whereas LeAnna Owen was a committed member of Milwaukee’s Dancing Grannies who managed an apartment building and rescued bulldogs;
Whereas Jane Kulich was a loving wife, mother, grandmother, and friend, and was dedicated to her co-workers at Citizens Bank, with whom she was marching in the parade;
Whereas Wilhelm Hospel volunteered for Milwaukee’s Dancing Grannies to support his wife, Lola, and was an avid outdoorsman;
Whereas Jackson Sparks was a loving child who enjoyed playing baseball for the Waukesha Blazers;
Whereas, in response to the tragedy, the community continues to stand
Waukesha Strong
in efforts to honor the victims and heal together;
Whereas, two weeks after the attack, homes and businesses were decorated in blue lights to honor the victims;
Whereas, on September 24, 2022, a mural that serves as a beacon for the community was dedicated to the lives lost in the attack; and
Whereas, a year later, the Waukesha community continues to overcome this tragedy: Now, therefore, be it
That House of Representatives—
(1)
honors the memories of Wilhelm Hospel, Virginia Sorenson, LeAnna Owen, Tamara Durand, Jane Kulich, and Jackson Sparks who died in the attack;
(2)
offers its heartfelt condolences to the families, friends, and loved ones of those who died in the attack;
(3)
applauds the life-saving efforts of first responders and health professionals in their efforts to provide care for the victims;
(4)
recognizes the Waukesha community for showing unparalleled resilience, courage, and strength; and
(5)
expresses its wishes that the next Waukesha Christmas parade will be a show of strength and compassion in the community, demonstrating the perseverance of Wisconsinites.
