117 HRES 996 IH: Encouraging companies headquartered in the United States to cease operations and halt future investments in the Russian Federation.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-03-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 996
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 18, 2022
Mr. Tony Gonzales of Texas
(for himself,
Mr. Ellzey
,
Mr. Feenstra
, and
Mr. Calvert
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Encouraging companies headquartered in the United States to cease operations and halt future investments in the Russian Federation.
Whereas, on February 21, 2022, Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin violated Ukraine’s sovereignty by ordering an unprovoked and illegal war;
Whereas this unprovoked attack has caused immense human suffering and displacement amongst the people of Ukraine;
Whereas the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights reported that 596 civilians, including 43 children, have been killed, and 1,076 have been injured as of March 13, 2022;
Whereas, according to the United Nations Refugee Agency, more than 2,500,000 Ukrainians have been displaced from their homes; and
Whereas American companies are pulling their operations and investments out of Russia in response to the invasion, including Airbnb, Inc., the American Express Company, Apple, Inc., Baker McKenzie, Dell, Expedia Group, Inc., ExxonMobil Corporation, Electronic Arts, Inc., Ford Motor Company, General Motors Company, Google, LLC, Harley-Davidson, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Development Company, Intel Corporation, Levi Strauss & Co., Mastercard, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Netflix, Inc., Paramount Pictures Corporation, Paypal Holdings, Inc., Universal Pictures, Visa, Inc., Walt Disney Company, and many more: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
lauds United States-headquartered companies that have ceased operations in the Russian Federation in response to Vladimir Putin’s aggression; and
(2)
encourages United States-headquartered companies to cease operations in the Russian Federation while Vladimir Putin carries out his war of aggression.
