117 HRES 309 IH: No Irresponsible Recovery or Reinvestment Expenditures Supporting Priorities Outside Necessary Surface Infrastructure Built Legitimately and Expediently Spending Act
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-04-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 309
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 13, 2021
Mr. Turner
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
To amend the Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit bills and joint resolutions that contain an appropriation or authorization of more than $100,000,000,000 relating to infrastructure that does not provide at least 50 percent of such funds to programs, initiatives, or projects that directly impact construction or maintenance of highways, roads, bridges, dams, passenger and freight railways, airports, waterways and ports, public schools, or the safety of such facilities.
1.
Short title
This Resolution may be cited as the
No Irresponsible Recovery or Reinvestment Expenditures Supporting Priorities Outside Necessary Surface Infrastructure Built Legitimately and Expediently Spending Act
or the
No IRRESPONSIBLE Spending Act
.
2.
Prohibition of consideration of certain bills
That rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by adding at the end the following new clause—
13.
It shall not be in order to consider a bill that contains an appropriation or authorization of more than $100,000,000,000 relating to infrastructure that does not provide at least 50 percent of such funds to programs, initiatives, or projects that directly impact construction or maintenance of highways, roads, bridges, dams, passenger and freight railways, airports, waterways and ports, public schools, or the safety of such facilities. A question of order on the percentage of funds provided to such programs, initiatives, or projects in such bill may be raised at any time.
.
