117 HRES 554 IH: Raising a question of the privileges of the House.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-07-26
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 554
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 26, 2021
Mr. McCarthy
submitted the following resolution; which was laid on the table
RESOLUTION
Raising a question of the privileges of the House.
Whereas, on June 30, 2021, the House voted to establish a ГўВҖВңSelect Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol.ГўВҖВқ;
Whereas, H. Res. 503 states that ГўВҖВңThe Speaker shall appoint 13 Members to the Select Committee, 5 of whom shall be appointed after consultation with the Minority Leader.ГўВҖВқ;
Whereas, on June 30, 2021, Speaker Nancy Pelosi stated that ГўВҖВңWe believe that Congress must in the spirit of bipartisanship and patriotism establish this commission.ГўВҖВқ;
Whereas, when asked during a press conference on July 22 about the partisanship of the committee, Speaker Pelosi stated that ГўВҖВңthe less partisan it is, the more it will be accepted by the American people.ГўВҖВқ;
Whereas, in a statement put out by the SpeakerГўВҖВҷs Office, Speaker Pelosi stated that ГўВҖВңour imperative must be to find the truth. We must do so in a way that retains the trust of the American people in the proceedings, so that they will have confidence in the truth that emerges.ГўВҖВқ;
Whereas, for the first known time in the history of the House, the Speaker of the House rejected two of the minority leaderГўВҖВҷs nominees to a Select Committee.;
Whereas, Speaker PelosiГўВҖВҷs own press release acknowledged that this was an ГўВҖВңunprecedented decision.ГўВҖВқ; and
Whereas, Speaker PelosiГўВҖВҷs refusal to seat all five Republican Members directly harms the legitimacy, credibility, and integrity of the proceedings of the Select Committee: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of RepresentativesГўВҖВ”
(1)
condemns the refusal of Speaker Nancy Pelosi to seat all five Republican Members to the Select Committee; and
(2)
urges the Speaker to make the following appointments to the Select Committee: Representative Jim Banks of Indiana, Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, Representative Rodney Davis of Illinois, Representative Kelly Armstrong of North Dakota, and Representative Troy Nehls of Texas.
