117 HRES 883 IH: Recognizing National Sanctity of Human Life Day.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-01-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 883
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 20, 2022
Mr. Budd
(for himself and
Mr. Norman
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing National Sanctity of Human Life Day.
Whereas life is inherently valuable at every stage and should be protected;
Whereas condoning abortion based on the sex or a disability of a child in the womb is barbaric and should be condemned;
Whereas a child in the womb is a unique person with his or her own genetic code and is a different being than the mother;
Whereas pro-life crisis pregnancy centers provide millions of dollars in free care annually to women seeking alternatives to abortion;
Whereas the pro-life movement has made a concerted effort to care for women, children, and families not just during pregnancy, but afterwards as well;
Whereas the abortion industry deceives women about the biological realities of children in the womb, falsely claiming that children in the womb are
clumps of cells
;
Whereas, as early as eight weeks, a child in the womb begins developing hands, feet, and teeth, and neural pathways are formed during this time that will last through the child’s entire life;
Whereas a growing body of scientific literature indicates that children in the womb feel pain prior to 15 weeks gestation, and nearly every major organ is present and functional by then;
Whereas a child in the womb has a heart that will beat roughly 15,000,000 times by 15 weeks;
Whereas abortion not only ends the life of a human being in the womb, but abortion also poses serious health risks and complications for mothers;
Whereas the abortion industry does not disclose the emotional and psychological toll a woman will face when ending a pregnancy through abortion;
Whereas, across the world, elective abortions past 20 weeks are permissible in only a handful of nations such as North Korea, China, and unfortunately, the United States;
Whereas since Roe v. Wade was decided on January 22, 1973, an estimated 62 million lives have been lost to abortion;
Whereas, in recent years, States across the country have taken the bold and noble stand to provide protections for the unborn and ensure their right to live;
Whereas just governments have an obligation to protect vulnerable and innocent children, including voiceless children in the womb;
Whereas failing to protect the rights of children in the womb is a failure to live up to the ideals found in the Declaration of Independence
that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness
;
Whereas abortion is a moral wrong that has no place in American society;
Whereas we mourn the suffering and loss of life since Roe v. Wade; and
Whereas January 22 would be an appropriate day to establish National Sanctity of Human Life Day: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of National Sanctity of Human Life Day; and
(2)
supports and encourages every American to reflect on the value of life and defending life at all stages.
