117 HRES 904 IH: Commending and congratulating the Coffeyville Community College Red Ravens men’s basketball team on winning the 2021 National Junior College Athletic Association Division I men’s basketball championship.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-02-02
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 904
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 2, 2022
Mr. LaTurner
(for himself,
Mr. Estes
,
Mr. Mann
, and
Ms. Davids of Kansas
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and Labor
RESOLUTION
Commending and congratulating the Coffeyville Community College Red Ravens men’s basketball team on winning the 2021 National Junior College Athletic Association Division I men’s basketball championship.
Whereas, on Saturday, April 24, 2021, the Coffeyville Community College Red Ravens men's basketball team (referred to in this preamble as the
Red Ravens
) defeated the Cowley County Community College Tigers by a score of 108 to 99 in the 2021 National Junior College Athletic Association (referred to in this preamble as the
NJCAA
) Division I men's basketball championship game;
Whereas the 2021 national championship is the first for the Red Ravens since 1962;
Whereas, in addition to winning the national championship, the Red Ravens won a share of the Kansas Jayhawk Community College Conference East title;
Whereas, in the championship game, freshman center Blaise Keita had a career-high 27 points on 13–16 shooting;
Whereas guard Tylor Perry—
(1)
had 18 points in the championship game; and
(2)
was named the Most Valuable Player of the 2021 NJCAA Division I men's basketball championship tournament;
Whereas Love Bettis, Blaise Keita, and Tylor Perry were named to the All-Tournament team; and
Whereas head coach Jay Herkelman was named the 2021 NJCAA Division I men's basketball coach of the year: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends the Coffeyville Community College Red Ravens men's basketball team on winning the 2021 National Junior College Athletic Association Division I men's basketball championship;
(2)
recognizes the players, coaches, and staff of the Coffeyville Community College Red Ravens men's basketball team; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Clerk of the House of Representatives transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the President of Coffeyville Community College, Dr. Marlon Thornburg;
(B)
the Athletic Director of Coffeyville Community College, Jeff Leiker; and
(C)
the head coach of the Coffeyville Community College Red Ravens men's basketball team, Jay Herkelman.
