SPECIAL DEPARTMENTAL RULE NO. I.

In addition to the exceptions from examination made by  , clause 2, the following exceptions to examinations for the classified departmental service are hereby made, viz:

I. In  .

2. In  :

In the office of the Secretary: Government actuary.

In the office of  : Bond clerk.

In the office of the Supervising Architect: Supervising Architect, assistant supervising architect, confidential clerk to  , and photographer.

In  , examiner, computer of bullion, and adjuster of accounts.

In  :   of class 4, acting as deputy commissioner.

In the office of  : Adjuster and  .

In   and Printing: Chief of the Bureau, assistant chief of Bureau, engravers, and plate printers.

In the Coast and Geodetic Survey: Superintendent, confidential clerk to   the normal or field force, general office assistant, confidential clerk to general office assistant, engravers and contract engravers, electrotypist and photographer, electrotypist's helper, apprentice to electrotypist and photographer, copperplate printers, plate-printers' helpers, and mechanicians.

In the office of   Revenue: Superintendent of stamp vault.

3. In  In the office of the Secretary: Superintendent of documents, clerk of class 3 as custodian, clerk to sign land patents, and telephone operator.

In the office of the Assistant Attorney-General: Law clerks--One at $2,750 per annum, one at $2,500 per annum, one at $2,250 per annum, and thirteen at $2,000 per annum.

In   clerk, examiner of interferences, and law clerk.

In  : Two law clerks, two law examiners, clerk of class 4 acting as receiving clerk, and ten principal examiners of land claims and contests.

In the Bureau of pensions: Assistant chief clerk, medical referee, assistant medical referee, and law clerk.

In  : Principal bookkeeper.

In the office of Commissioner of Railroads: Railroad engineer.

In  : Collector and compiler of statistics and statistician.

In the Geological Survey: In permanent force--General assistant, executive officer, photographer, twelve geologists, two paleontologists, two chemists, chief geographer, three topographers, and three geographers. In temporary force--Six paleontologists, eight geologists, geographer,  , and editor.

4. In   for the General of the   and clerk for the retired  .

In the office of the Chief Signal Officer: Lithographer.

5. In  :

In  , copperplate printers, printers' apprentices.

6. In   clerk and two law clerks.

7. In  In the office of the Commissioner: Private secretary to the chief clerk, superintendent of grounds, and assistant chief of each of the following divisions: of botany, of chemistry, of entomology, of forestry, and of statistics.

In  : Chief of the Bureau, assistant chief, private secretary to chief, and chief clerk.

8. In  : Assistant Attorney-General, law clerk, and agents and employees at postal-note, postage-stamp, postal-card, and envelope agencies.

9. In  : Statistical experts and temporary experts. Approved,  .
