1.
Review of sanctions with respect to Russian kleptocrats and human rights abusers
(a)
Determination with respect to imposition of sanctions
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a determination, including a detailed justification, of whether any person listed in subsection (b) meets the criteria for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to section 1263(b) of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act (subtitle F of title XII of
Public Law 114–328
;
22 U.S.C. 2656
).
(b)
Persons listed
The persons listed in this subsection, which include Russian persons and current and former officials of the Government of the Russian Federation, are the following:
(1)
Roman Abramovich, businessman.
(2)
Denis Bortnikov, Deputy President and Chairman of the Management Board of VTB Bank.
(3)
Andrey Kostin, President and Chairman of the Management Board of VTB Bank.
(4)
Dmitry Patrushev, Minister of Agriculture.
(5)
Igor Shuvalov, Chairman of the State Development Corporation VEB.
(6)
Alisher Usmanov, businessman.
(7)
Oleg Deripaska, businessman.
(8)
Alexei Miller, Chairman of the Management Committee of Gazprom.
(9)
Igor Sechin, Chairman of the Management Board of Rosneft.
(10)
Gennady Timchenko, businessman.
(11)
Nikolai Tokarev, Chairman of Transneft.
(12)
Andrey Vorobyev, Governor of the Moscow Region XIII.
(13)
Mikhail Murashko, Minister of Health.
(14)
Vladimir Solovyev, media personality.
(15)
Alexander Bastrykin, Head of the Investigative Committee.
(16)
Alexander Bortnikov, Director of the Federal Security Service (FSB).
(17)
Konstantin Ernst, Chief Executive Officer of Channel One TV station.
(18)
Victor Gavrilov, Head of the Department of Transport of the Economic Security Service.
(19)
Dmitry Ivanov, Head of Chelyabinsk FSB.
(20)
Alexander Kalashnikov, Director of the Federal Penitentiary Service (FSIN).
(21)
Sergei Kirienko, First Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration.
(22)
Elena Morozova, Judge of Khimki District Court.
(23)
Denis Popov, Chief Prosecutor of Moscow.
(24)
Margarita Simonyan, Editor-in-Chief of RT.
(25)
Igor Yanchuk, Head of the Khimki Police Department.
(26)
Victor Zolotov, Director of the National Guard.
(27)
Alexander Beglov, Governor of St. Petersburg.
(28)
Yuri Chaika, former Prosecutor General.
(29)
Andrei Kartapolov, Deputy Defense Minister.
(30)
Pavel Krasheninnikov, Parliamentarian and former Justice Minister.
(31)
Mikhail Mishustin, Prime Minister of the Russian Federation.
(32)
Ella Pamfilova, Head of Central Electoral Commission.
(33)
Dmitry Peskov, Presidential Press Secretary.
(34)
Sergei Sobyanin, Mayor of Moscow.
(35)
Anton Vaino, Head of the Presidential Administration.
(c)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
