1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Aluminum Pricing Examination Act
or the
APEX Act
.
2.
Jurisdiction of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission over markets that set or report reference prices for aluminum premiums
Section 2(a)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (
7 U.S.C. 2(a)(1)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(J)
Reference prices for aluminum premiums
(i)
Jurisdiction
(I)
In general
The Commission shall have jurisdiction over markets that set or report reference prices for aluminum premiums, including—
(aa)
oversight of the process and manner in which reference prices for aluminum premiums are set or reported; and
(bb)
determining whether the mechanism for setting references prices for aluminum premiums is fair and transparent.
(II)
Effect
Nothing in this Act grants the Commission authority to set or control prices for aluminum premiums.
(ii)
Consultation with Attorney General
(I)
In general
The Commission shall consult with the Attorney General on any relevant information, allegations of anticompetitive conduct, or marketplace analysis in the setting or reporting of a reference price for aluminum premiums.
(II)
Review by Attorney General
The Commission shall afford the Attorney General an opportunity to review any regulation or guideline proposed by the Commission in carrying out this subparagraph to ensure that the regulation or guideline is consistent with the goals and purposes of the antitrust laws.
(III)
Authorities and duties of Attorney General
The Attorney General—
(aa)
may cooperate, and share relevant information, with the Commission with respect to the setting of a reference price for aluminum premiums; and
(bb)
shall review any proposed regulation or guideline described in subclause (II) to ensure that the regulation or guideline is in accordance with the goals and purposes of the antitrust laws.
(IV)
Transmission to Commission
The Attorney General shall transmit to the Commission the views of the Attorney General on any proposed regulation or guideline described in subclause (II).
.
