1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting U.S. Engagement in Expos Act of 2022
.
2.
Participation in international fairs and expositions
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding section 204 of the Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001 (
22 U.S.C. 2452b
), funds appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department of State in any fiscal year may be obligated and expended for United States participation in international fairs and expositions abroad, including for construction and operation of United States pavilions or other major exhibits, subject to subsections (b), (c), (d), and (e).
(b)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $20,000,000 to the Department for United States participation in international fairs and expositions abroad, including for construction and operation of pavilions or other major exhibits.
(c)
Limitation on solicitation of funds
Senior employees of the Department, in their official capacity, may not solicit funds to pay expenses for a United States pavilion or other major exhibit at any international exposition or world’s fair registered by the Bureau of International Expositions.
(d)
Cost-Share requirement
Funds made available pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) to the Department of State for a United States pavilion or other major exhibit at an international fair or exposition abroad shall be made available on a cost-matching basis, to the maximum extent practicable, from sources other than the United States Government.
(e)
Notification
(1)
In general
None of the funds made available pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) to the Department of State for a United States pavilion or other major exhibit at an international fair or exposition abroad may be obligated until—
(A)
the appropriate congressional committees have been notified of such intended obligation; and
(B)
a period of not fewer than 15 days has elapsed following such notification.
(2)
Matters to be included
Each notification under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the source of such funds, including any funds reprogrammed or transferred by the Department of State to be made available for such pavilion or other major exhibit abroad.
(B)
An estimate of the amount of investment such pavilion or other major exhibit abroad could bring to the United States.
(C)
A description of the strategy of the Department to identify and obtain such matching funds from sources other than the United States Government, in accordance with subsection (d).
3.
Final report
Not later than 180 days after the date on which a United States pavilion or other major exhibit abroad is opened at an international fair or exposition as specified in this section, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes—
(1)
the number of United States businesses that participated in such pavilion or other major exhibit; and
(2)
the dollar amount and source of any matching funds obtained by the Department.
4.
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the following:
(1)
The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
