1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prevent Blood Loss with Emergency Equipment Devices Act
or the
Prevent BLEEDing Act
.
2.
Grants to distribute anti-blood loss supplies for use in a medical emergency
Part E of title XII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300d–51 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
1255.
Grants to distribute anti-blood loss supplies for use in a medical emergency
(a)
In general
The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, shall establish a program to award grants to State, local, and Tribal governments to—
(1)
purchase and distribute anti-blood loss supplies for use in a medical emergency—
(A)
in high-traffic and high-density areas; or
(B)
areas adjacent to an automated external defibrillator; and
(2)
implement appropriate training courses in the proper use of anti-blood loss supplies to enhance public safety.
(b)
Eligibility
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a State, local, or Tribal government shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including—
(1)
a description of the areas the State, local, or Tribal government intends to place such anti-blood loss supplies for use in a medical emergency; and
(2)
an agreement to consult with appropriate public and private entities.
(c)
Consideration
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary may not consider—
(1)
the population of the area served by a State, local, or Tribal government; or
(2)
the rate of violent crime in an area served by a State, local, or Tribal government.
(d)
Apportionment
Of the amounts appropriated under subsection (f) to carry out this section, the Secretary shall, for each fiscal year, apportion such amounts based on the population of the area served by a State, local, or Tribal government receiving grant funds.
(e)
Anti-Blood loss supplies
In this section, the term
anti-blood loss supplies
includes tourniquets, gauze, wound-packing materials, hemostatic dressings, gloves, markers, and other similar supplies.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2023, to remain available until expended.
.
3.
Study on trends in access to and utilization of bleeding control kits and training
(a)
In general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study on trends regarding access to and utilization of bleeding control kits and training.
(b)
Report
(1)
Submission
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall complete the study under subsection (a) and submit to the Congress a report on the results of such study.
(2)
Contents
The report under paragraph (1) shall disaggregate by State and geographic area (including across rural, urban, and suburban areas) findings on trends in access to and utilization of bleeding control kits and training.
