1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
TSA Reaching Across Nationalities, Societies, and Languages to Advance Traveler Education Act
or the
TRANSLATE Act
.
2.
Plan to improve materials disseminated by Transportation Security Administration
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a plan to ensure that TSA material disseminated in major airports can be better understood by individuals accessing such airports.
(b)
Contents
The plan required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An identification of the most common languages other than English that are the primary languages of individuals that travel through or work in each major airport.
(2)
A plan to improve—
(A)
TSA materials to communicate information in languages identified pursuant to paragraph (1); and
(B)
the communication of TSA material to individuals with vision or hearing impairments or other possible barriers to understanding such material.
(c)
Considerations
In developing the plan required under subsection (a), the Administrator, acting through the Office of Civil Rights and Liberties, Ombudsman, and Traveler Engagement of the Transportation Security Administration, shall consider data regarding the following:
(1)
International enplanement.
(2)
Local populations surrounding major airports.
(d)
Implementation
Not later than 180 days after the submission of the plan required under subsection (a), the Administrator shall implement such plan.
(e)
GAO review
Not later than 1 year after the implementation pursuant to subsection (d) of the plan required under subsection (a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall—
(1)
conduct a review of such implementation; and
(2)
submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report on such review.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.
(2)
Major airport
The term
major airport
means an airport classified by the Transportation Security Administration as a Category X or Category I airport.
(3)
Non-traveling individual
The term
non-traveling individual
has the meaning given such term in section 1560.3 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
(4)
TSA material
The term
TSA material
means signs, videos, audio messages, websites, press releases, social media postings, and other communications published and disseminated by the Administrator in major airports for use by both traveling and non-traveling individuals.
