1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Legacies of War Recognition and Unexploded Ordnance Removal Act
.
2.
Recognition of the Hmong, Cham, Cambodian, Iu-Mien, Khmu, Lao, Montagnard, and Vietnamese communities who supported and defended the Armed Forces in Southeast Asia
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Many Hmong, Cham, Cambodian, Iu-Mien, Khmu, Lao, Montagnard and Vietnamese—
(A)
fought and died with United States Armed Forces during the conflict in Southeast Asia in the 1960s and 1970s;
(B)
rescued United States pilots shot down in enemy-controlled territory and returned the pilots to safety;
(C)
gathered and provided to the United States Armed Forces intelligence about enemy troop positions, movement, and strength; and
(D)
provided food, shelter, and support to the United States Armed Forces.
(2)
The National Armed Forces of Cambodia facilitated the evacuation of the United States Embassy in Phnom Penh on April 12, 1975, by continuing to fight Khmer Rouge forces as they advanced upon the capital.
(3)
The unexploded ordnance (UXO) in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia that still litter forests, rice fields, villages, school grounds, roads, and other populated areas hinder development and poverty reduction efforts.
(4)
Vietnam remains one of the world’s most contaminated countries, with an estimated 800,000 tons of UXO left over from the conflict in Southeast Asia that ended more than 40 years ago. Since 1975, mine and UXO accidents have caused more than 105,000 casualties, including more than 38,000 deaths of Vietnamese civilians.
(5)
In Laos, much of the country’s land remains contaminated with tens of millions of small, unexploded cluster munitions. Since 1964, explosive remnants of war have injured or killed more than 50,000 civilians in Laos.
(6)
Cambodia has experienced one of the highest rates of landmine and UXO casualties in the world. Over 64,000 Cambodians have been killed or injured by UXO and other explosive remnants of war since 1979.
(7)
The United States is the world’s leading financial supporter of demining and UXO removal programs. Since 1993, the United States has worked to locate and destroy UXO and other explosive remnants of war in more than 100 countries, including in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Hmong, Cham, Cambodian, Iu-Mien, Khmu, Lao, Montagnard, and Vietnamese Americans deserve recognition for their support and defense of the United States Armed Forces during the conflict in Southeast Asia; and
(2)
the United States should continue to support activities to clear UXO and other explosive remnants of war in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia, and strengthen people-to-people ties and reaffirm America’s long-standing commitment to Southeast Asia.
3.
Authorization of assistance for Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia
(a)
In general
The President is authorized to provide humanitarian assistance for programs to support the activities described in subsection (b).
(b)
Activities supported
Activities that may be supported by assistance under subsection (a) include the following:
(1)
Developing national surveys of unexploded ordnance (UXO) and other explosive remnants of war in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia.
(2)
Providing for clearance of such UXO and other explosive remnants of war.
(3)
Providing assistance for capacity building, risk education, and assistance to survivors, including medical assistance and prosthetic devices, in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia related to both UXO and other explosive remnants of war.
(c)
Coordination
In carrying out this section, the President shall seek to consult, partner, and coordinate with international organizations, civil society, donor governments, and other stakeholders, as appropriate, to leverage their expertise, financial support, and resources to minimize duplication of efforts and maximize the efficient and effective provision of United States assistance.
(d)
Briefings
(1)
Annual briefings
The President shall provide annual briefings to the appropriate committees of Congress on activities undertaken in accordance with this section.
(2)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee of Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.
