1.
Short titles
This Act may be cited as the
Reporting Efficiently to Proper Officials in Response to Terrorism Act of 2021
or the
REPORT Act
.
2.
Duty to report
(a)
Duty imposed
Except as provided in subsection (c), whenever an act of terrorism occurs in the United States, it shall be the duty of the primary Government agency investigating such act to submit, in collaboration with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Attorney General, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and, as appropriate, the Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, an unclassified report (which may be accompanied by a classified annex) to Congress concerning such act not later than 1 year after the completion of the investigation. Reports required under this subsection may be combined into a quarterly report to Congress.
(b)
Content of reports
Each report under this section shall include—
(1)
a statement of the facts of the act of terrorism referred to in subsection (a), as known at the time of the report;
(2)
an explanation of any gaps in national security that could be addressed to prevent future acts of terrorism;
(3)
any recommendations for additional measures that could be taken to improve homeland security, including potential changes in law enforcement practices or changes in law, with particular attention to changes that could help prevent future acts of terrorism; and
(4)
a summary of the report for public distribution.
(c)
Exception
(1)
In general
The duty established under subsection (a) shall not apply in instances in which the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Attorney General, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or the head of the National Counterterrorism Center determines that the information required to be reported could jeopardize an ongoing investigation or prosecution.
(2)
Notification requirement
In each instance described in paragraph (1), the principal making a determination under such paragraph shall notify Congress of such determination not later than 1 year after the completion of the related investigation described in subsection (a).
(d)
Defined term
In this section, the term
act of terrorism
means an act of domestic terrorism or international terrorism (as such terms are defined in section 2331 of title 18, United States Code).
(e)
Sunset
This section shall cease to be effective beginning on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
