1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Technology Standards Task Force Act of 2021
.
2.
Establishment of Emerging Technology Standards-Setting Task Force
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall establish a task force on setting emerging technology standards.
(2)
Designation
The task force established under paragraph (1) shall be known as the
Emerging Technology Standards-Setting Task Force
(in this section referred to as the
Task Force
).
(b)
Membership
(1)
Composition
The Task Force shall be composed of members as follows:
(A)
The Director.
(B)
At least two individuals selected by the Secretary of Commerce, one whom—
(i)
at least one shall be selected by the Secretary to represent the Department of Commerce generally; and
(ii)
at least one shall be selected by the Secretary to represent the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
(C)
At least one individual selected by the Secretary of State to represent the Department of State.
(D)
At least one individual selected by the Secretary of Defense to represent the Department of Defense.
(E)
At least one individual selected by the Secretary of Energy to represent the Department of Energy.
(F)
At least one individual selected by the Secretary of Labor to represent the Department of Labor.
(G)
At least one individual selected by the Secretary of Transportation to represent the Department of Transportation.
(H)
At least one individual selected by the Attorney General to represent the Department of Justice.
(I)
At least one individual selected by the Secretary of the Treasury to represent the Department of the Treasury.
(2)
Chairperson
The Chairperson of the Task Force shall be the Director.
(c)
Duties
(1)
Strategic plan
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Task Force shall develop a long-term strategic plan for the United States to lead emerging technology standards-setting processes.
(2)
Additional duties
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Task Force shall—
(A)
assess which technology standards (such as fifth and sixth generation wireless networking technology and artificial intelligence) have the greatest effect on national security and economic competitiveness;
(B)
describe and analyze the ways in which standards setting processes can be misused by governments for protectionist ends and human rights abuses;
(C)
establish and execute a strategy to ensure credibility and engagement with international institutions; and
(D)
develop a list of allies and partners with which to align with respect to the strategy to be established and executed under subparagraph (B).
(d)
Engagement
In carrying out the duties of the Task Force, the Task Force shall engage with academia and the private sector.
(e)
Staff
The Chairperson of the Task Force may appoint or delegate an executive director and such other additional personnel as may be necessary to enable the Task Force to perform its duties.
