1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Overdose Review Team Act
.
2.
Funding to establish drug overdose fatality review teams
Part A of title XI of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
1150D.
Grants to establish drug overdose fatality review teams
(a)
Grants
The Secretary shall, using amounts appropriated under this section, award grants to States, units of local government, and Indian Tribes to establish, expand, or maintain a Drug Overdose Fatality Review Team, which shall—
(1)
promote cooperation and coordination among agencies involved in the investigation of fatal and non-fatal drug overdoses;
(2)
develop an understanding of the causes and incidences of drug overdoses in the jurisdiction where the team operates;
(3)
track the total number of drug overdose deaths and identify trends and patterns in fatal and non-fatal drug overdoses in the jurisdiction where the team operates;
(4)
plan for and recommend changes within the agencies to prevent drug overdose fatalities;
(5)
recommend best practices for preventing drug overdoses and drug overdose deaths; and
(6)
advise policymakers in the team’s jurisdiction about potential changes to law, policy, funding, or practices to prevent drug overdoses.
(b)
Grant recipients
The Secretary shall not award grant funds under this section to a recipient unless the recipient provides to the Secretary a list of individuals on the drug overdose fatality review team, which shall include—
(1)
not less than 1 representative each from—
(A)
the State, local, or Tribal department of health, or similar department;
(B)
the State, local, or Tribal governmental entity responsible for alcohol, drug, or other substance addiction treatment and services;
(C)
the State, local, or Tribal department of social services, or similar department;
(D)
the State, local or Tribal attorney’s office;
(E)
law enforcement agencies of the jurisdiction, which may include representatives of law enforcement agencies operating in a high intensity drug trafficking area designated pursuant to section 707(b) of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (
21 U.S.C. 1706(b)
);
(F)
the State, local, or Tribal department of corrections, or similar department; and
(G)
the State, local or Tribal medical examiner or coroner;
(2)
a health care provider who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of substance use and misuse and substance use disorders;
(3)
a health care provider who specializes in treating co-occurring mental health and substance use disorders;
(4)
a representative from emergency medical services;
(5)
a patient advocate who has lived experience with substance use and misuse or who has a family member with a history of substance use and misuse;
(6)
an emergency department physician;
(7)
a toxicologist; and
(8)
a community-based substance use prevention coalition leader or other community-based substance use prevention professional.
(c)
Appropriation
In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2023, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain available until 2027, to carry out this section.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Indian tribe
The term
Indian Tribe
has the meaning given that term in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304(e)
).
(2)
State
The term
State
has the meaning given that term in section 1101(a)(1) for purposes of this title and includes the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
.
