1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Anna Westin Legacy Act
.
2.
Maintaining education and training on eating disorders
Subpart 3 of part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290bb–31 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
520N.
Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders for education and training on eating disorders
(a)
In general
The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary, shall maintain, directly or by grant or contract, the Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders (referred to in this section as the
Center
) to improve the identification of, interventions for, and treatment of eating disorders in a manner that is culturally and linguistically appropriate.
(b)
Activities
The Center operated pursuant to subsection (a)—
(1)
shall—
(A)
provide training and technical assistance for frontline health care providers and frontline community professionals to carry out screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment for individuals experiencing, or at risk for, eating disorders;
(B)
in carrying out subparagraph (A), develop adaptive training models for frontline health care providers and frontline community professionals to carry out screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment for children and marginalized populations experiencing, or at risk for, eating disorders;
(C)
provide technical assistance to other centers of excellence, technical assistance centers, and psychiatric consultation lines of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration or the Health Resources and Services Administration on eating disorder identification, intervention, and referral for treatment; and
(D)
coordinate with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration to disseminate training to frontline health care providers and frontline community professionals; and
(2)
may—
(A)
coordinate with electronic health record systems for the integration of protocols pertaining to screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment for individuals experiencing, or at risk for, eating disorders;
(B)
develop adaptive training models for frontline health care providers and frontline community professionals to carry out screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment for Members of the Armed Forces and veterans experiencing, or at risk for, eating disorders; and
(C)
consult with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on prevention, identification, intervention for, and treatment of eating disorders.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.
.
