1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Manufactured Housing Community Improvement Grant Program Act
.
2.
Manufactured housing community improvement grant program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible manufactured home community
The term
eligible manufactured home community
means a community that—
(A)
is affordable to low- and moderate-income persons (as such term is defined in section 102(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5302(a)
)); and
(B)
(i)
is owned by the residents of the manufactured housing community through a resident-controlled entity, as defined by the Secretary, in which at least two-thirds of residents are member-owners of the land-owning entity; or
(ii)
will be maintained as such a community, and remain affordable for low- and moderate-income families, to the maximum extent practicable and for the longest period feasible.
(2)
Eligible recipient
The term
eligible recipient
means a partnership of—
(A)
a grantee under paragraph (2) or (4) of section 106(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5306(a)
); and
(B)
an eligible manufactured home community, a nonprofit entity, or a consortia of nonprofit entities working with an eligible manufactured home community.
(3)
Manufactured home community
The term
manufactured home community
means any community, court, or park equipped to accommodate manufactured homes for which pad sites, with or without existing manufactured homes or other allowed homes, or other suitable sites, are used primarily for residential purposes, with any additional requirements as determined by the Secretary, including any manufactured housing community as such term is used for purposes of the program of the Federal National Mortgage Association for multifamily loans for manufactured housing communities and the program of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation for loans for manufactured housing communities.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
(b)
Establishment
The Secretary shall carry out a competitive grant program to award funds to eligible recipients to carry out eligible projects for improvements in eligible manufactured home communities.
(c)
Eligible projects
Amounts from grants under this section shall be used to assist in carrying out a project for construction, reconstruction, repair, or clearance of housing, facilities and improvements in or serving a manufactured housing community that is necessary to protect the health and safety of the residents of the manufactured housing community and the long-term sustainability of the community.
(d)
Waivers
The Secretary may waive or specify alternative requirements for any provision of law or regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with use of amounts made available under this section other than requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment, upon a finding that the waiver or alternative requirement is not inconsistent with the overall purposes of such Act and that the waiver or alternative requirement is necessary to facilitate the use of amounts made available under this section.
(e)
Implementation
The Secretary shall have authority to issue such regulations, notices, or other guidance, forms, instructions, and publications to carry out the programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are completed in a timely and effective manner.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
