WHEREAS on  ,   and   entered into an agreement (Supplement No. 1 to Contract TV-56798) providing for the transfer by the   to   right of possession and all other right, title, and interest which the   might have in or to the tract of land in  ,  , therein designated and described, so that the tract might be included in and reserved as a part of  , in accordance with the provisions and conditions of the agreement and subject to the approval required by Section 4(k) (c) of   of  , as amended by the Act of   (16 U.S.C. 831c (k) (c)); and

WHEREAS on  , the agreement between   and   was approved by the Director of   pursuant to the provisions of Section 4(k) (c) of   of  , as amended, supra, and of Section 1(h) of Executive Order No.   of  ; and

WHEREAS it appears that such lands are suitable for national forest purposes and that their inclusion in   would be in the public interest:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 24 of the Act of  , 26 Stat.  , as amended, and the Act of  , 30 Stat.  ,   (16 U.S.C. 471, 473), and as President of  , and upon the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is ordered that the following-described tract of land be included in and reserved as a part of  , such inclusion and reservation to be in accordance with and subject to all of the provisions and conditions of the agreement of  , between   and  Tract Number XTBRR-2

A tract of land lying in the Eighth District of Section II in   in  , on the southwest side of  , approximately % mile south of  , and more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at a point in the center of the junction of the old  Morganton Highway with   Highway   and in the boundary of   land at a corner of the land previously conveyed In fee by   in the name of   under the designation of Tract No.   and the land of  ; from the initial point with   boundary line, with the center line of   Highway   in a westerly direction approximately 285 feet; leaving the highway, N. 10°49' W., 501 feet passing   (Coordinates; N. 1,772,740; E. 464,188) at 32 feet, to a metal marker;   E., 950 feet to metal marker; leaving   boundary line, due east, 1013 feet, passing a metal marker at 983 feet, to a point in the center line of   Highway  ; with the center line of   Highway   as it meanders in a southerly direction approximately 1,385 feet to a point in the boundary of   land; with   boundary line, continuing with the center line of   Highway   as it curves to the right in a westerly direction approximately 720 feet to the point of beginning.

The land as described above contains 38.5 acres, more or less.

Note. The positions of corners and directions of lines are referred to the   (West) Coordinate System. The boundary marker designated "US-TVA Monument" is a concrete monument capped by a bronze table imprinted with the given number.
