SECTION 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established   (hereafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of such members, not to exceed twenty, as the President shall appoint, one of whom shall be designated by the President as the chairman. The members and chairman of the   shall serve at the pleasure of the President.

(c) The President shall appoint an   Secretary, who shall receive such compensation as the President shall specify. The functions and duties of the Executive Secretary shall be prescribed by the  .

 . 2.  . The   shall:

(1) Inquire into the causes of crime and delinquency, measures for their prevention, the adequacy of law enforcement and administration of justice, and the factors encouraging respect or disrespect for law, at the national,  , and local levels, and make such studies, conduct such hearings, and request such information as it deems appropriate for this purpose.

(2) Develop standards and make recommendations for actions which can be taken by  , and local governments, and by private persons and organizations, to prevent, reduce, and control crime and increase respect for law, including, but not limited to, improvements in training and qualifications of personnel engaged in law enforcement and related activities, improvements in techniques, organization, and administration of law enforcement activities, improvements in the administration of justice, improvements in correction and rehabilitation of convicted offenders and juvenile delinquents, promotion of better understanding between law, enforcement officials and other members of the community, and promotion of greater respect for law throughout the community.

 . 3. Executive Departments and Agencies; Judiciary. The Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  , and the Director of   each shall designate a representative to serve with the   as liaison. All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   and furnish it such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it, may require in the performance of its functions and duties. The   shall consult, as it deems appropriate, with members of  , and local judiciary and their assistants concerning matters of common interest.

 . 4. Appointment of  . The Chairman of the  , after consultation with the other members, and at such times as the   may deem appropriate, shall constitute   (hereafter referred to as the "Committees") composed of persons (including persons from   and local governments and other public and voluntary organizations) who are authorities in professional or technical fields related to crime or juvenile delinquency, or persons representative of the general public who are leaders in activities concerned with crime or juvenile delinquency. The  , and persons who are members, shall serve at the pleasure of the  .

 . 5. Functions of Committees. The   shall furnish the   information, advice, and recommendations with respect to the functions set forth in section 2 of this order and shall engage in such other activities as the   may deem appropriate.

 . 6, Compensation, Personnel, and  . (a) Members of the   not otherwise employed by   shall receive $100 per diem when engaged in the performance of duties pursuant to this order, and shall be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons employed intermittently.

(b) The   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such other personnel as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions.

(c) The   is authorized to obtain services, including the services of individuals as members of  , in accordance with the provisions of section 15 of the Act of   (5 U.S.C.  ), at rates for individuals not to exceed $100 per diem.

(d) All necessary expenses incurred in Connection with the work of the   shall be paid from  " fund of the President or such other appropriated funds as may be available for the purposes of the  .

 . 7.  .   shall provide administrative services fo,r the   on a reimbursable basis.

 . 8. Reports to the President and Termination. The   shall make reports and recommendations to the President from time to time as it deems suitable and shall present a final report and recommendations not   from the date of this order. The   shall terminate not   after presenting such final report and recommendations.
