SECTION 1.

Establishment of Committee.

(a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of the Director of  , who shall be the Chairman of the  ; the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  , and  ; the Secretary of  ;  ; the Director of  ; the Director of  ; and the Director of  . Each member of the   may designate an alternate, who shall serve as a member of the   whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the  .

 . 2.

Duties of the  .

(a) The   shall:

(1) Appraise the current and prospective national requirements for, and availability of, manpower to meet the health needs of the civilian population and the armed forces;

(2) Evaluate existing and alternative policies, programs, and practices of public agencies and private institutions and organizations for increasing health manpower and assuring maximum effective use thereof; and

(3) Develop appropriate recommendations for action by Government or by private institutions, organizations, or individuals for improving the availability and utilization of health manpower.

(b) Such recommendations shall take into account the final report of   established by Section 3 of this order, which report shall be transmitted to the President with the recommendations of the  .

 . 3.

Establishment of Commission.

(a) To assist the   in carrying out its functions under Section 2 of this order, there is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of fifteen members appointed by the President, none of whom shall be officers or full-time employees of  . The President shall designate the Chairman of the   from among its members.

(c) The Commission shall meet on call of the Chairman.

(d) Each member of the   may be compensated for   such member is engaged upon work of the  , and shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

(e) The   shall have an Executive Director, who shall be designated by the President. Under the direction and supervision of the Chairman, the   Director shall direct and supervise staff assigned to assist the   in carrying out its responsibilities under this order.

 . 4.

Duties of the Commission.

(a) The   shall transmit to the   its independent analysis, evaluation, and recommendations with respect to all matters assigned to the   for study and recommendations.

(b) In carrying out its duties under subsection (a) above, the   shall:

(1) Make a comprehensive study and appraisal of the current situation and trends in the provision of health care for the civilian population and the armed forces and their implications with respect to the current and prospective adequacy and utilization of manpower;

(2) Appraise the current policies, programs, and practices of public agencies and private institutions and organizations and other factors which have a bearing on the requirements for, and the availability of, health manpower and the effective allocation and utilization of such manpower; and

(3) Develop appropriate recommendations for action by Government or by private institutions, organizations, or individuals for improving the availability and utilization of health manpower.

(c) The   shall submit its final report and recommendations to the     after the date of its first meeting, and shall make such interim reports as it deems will contribute to improving the availability and utilization of health manpower.

 . 5.

Federal departments and agencies.

(a)   is authorized to request from any   or agency any information deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this order; and each department or agency is authorized, consistent with law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information to  .

(b) Each department or agency the head of which is named in Section 1(b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to   in accordance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691), or as otherwise permitted by law.

(c)   is hereby designated as the agency which shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide administrative services for the  .

 . 6.

Termination of the Committee and the Commission.

The   and the   shall terminate   after the final report of the   is submitted to the  .
