SECTION 1.  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The membership of the   shall consist of the Secretary of  , and  , who shall be the Chairman of the  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the Director of  , and may include, in addition,   who is hereby invited to be a member of the  . Each member of the   may designate an alternate, who shall serve as a member of the   whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the  .

 . 2. Duties of the  . (a) The   shall:

(1) Appraise the role of libraries as resources for scholarly pursuits, as centers for the dissemination of knowledge, and as components of the  's rapidly evolving communications and information-exchange network;

(2) Evaluate policies, programs, and practices of public agencies and private institutions and organizations with reference to maximum effective and efficient use of the  's library resources; and

(3) Develop recommendations for action by Government or by private institutions and organizations designed to ensure an effective and efficient library system for the Nation.

(b) Such recommendations shall take into account the final report of   established by Section 3 of this order, which report shall be transmitted to the President with the recommendations of the  .

 . 3. Establishment of Commission. (a) To assist the   in carrying out its functions under Section 2 of this order, there is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of not more than twenty members appointed by the President, none of whom shall be officers or full-time employees of  . The President shall designate the Chairman of the   from among its members.

(c) The Commission shall meet on call of the Chairman.

(d) Each member of the   may be compensated for   such member is engaged upon work of the  , and shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

 . 4. Duties of the  . (a) The   shall transmit to the   its independent analysis, evaluation, and recommendations with respect to all matters assigned to the   for study and recommendations.

(b) In carrying out its duties under subsection (a), above, the   shall:

(1) Make a comprehensive study and appraisal of the role of libraries as resources for scholarly pursuits, as centers for the dissemination of knowledge, and as components of the evolving national information systems;

(2) Appraise the policies, programs, and practices of public agencies and private institutions and organizations, together with other factors, which have a bearing on the role and effective utilization of libraries;

(3) Appraise library funding, including Federal support of libraries, to determine how funds available for the construction and support of libraries and library services can be more effectively and efficiently utilized; and

(4) Develop recommendations for action by Government or private institutions and organizations designed to ensure an effective and efficient library system for the Nation.

(c) The   shall submit its final report and recommendations to the     after the date of its first meeting, and shall make such interim reports as it deems appropriate for improving the utilization of library resources.

 . 5. Federal departments and agencies. (a)   is authorized to request from any   or agency any information deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this order; and each department or agency is authorized, consistent with law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information to  .

(b) Each department or other executive agency the head of which is named in Section 1 (b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to   in accordance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691), or as otherwise permitted by law.

(c)  , and   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the  .

 . 6. Termination of the Committee and the Commission.   and the   shall terminate   after the final report of the   is submitted to the  .
