1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop the ICC Act
.
2.
Prohibition against cooperation with the International Criminal Court and support for the Palestinian Authority
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
In 2014, and in each subsequent year, Congress has enacted provisions, including section 7041(k)(2)(A)(i)(II) of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024 (
Public Law 118–47
), prohibiting the use of economic support funds for the Palestinian Authority if the Palestinians initiate an investigation of the International Criminal Court (referred to in this section as the
ICC
), or actively support such an investigation, which subjects Israeli nationals to an investigation for alleged crimes against Palestinians.
(2)
In 2021, the ICC opened an investigation into the
Situation in Palestine
.
(3)
The chief prosecutor of the ICC recently applied for arrest warrants for Israeli leaders for a range of offenses allegedly committed
on the territory of the State of Palestine (in the Gaza strip) from at least 8 October 2023
.
(b)
Prohibition against cooperation with the ICC
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no official of the United States may cooperate with the International Criminal Court with respect to any matter.
(c)
Fulfillment of statutory condition
The investigation referred to in subsection (a)(2) and the application for arrests warrants for Israeli officials referred to in subsection (a)(3) justifies prohibiting the use of economic support funds for the Palestinian Authority in accordance with section 7041(k)(2)(A)(i)(II) of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024 (
Public Law 118–47
).
(d)
Prohibition against use of Economic Support Fund in Gaza
None of the funds made available pursuant to chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2346 et seq.
) may be used to provide support for the Palestinian Authority.
(e)
Prohibition against funding for the ICC
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal funds may be made available for the ICC.
