1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Airports PFAS Liability Protection Act
.
2.
Exemption under CERCLA
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
The term
covered perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
means a non-polymeric perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance that contains at least 2 sequential fully fluorinated carbon atoms, excluding gases and volatile liquids, that is a hazardous substance (as defined in section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9601
)).
(2)
Indian tribe
The term
Indian Tribe
has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
).
(3)
Sponsor
The term
sponsor
has the meaning given the term in section 47102 of title 49, United States Code.
(b)
Exemption
Subject to subsection (c), no person (including the United States, any State, or an Indian Tribe) may recover costs or damages from a sponsor, including a sponsor of the civilian portion of a joint-use airport or a shared-use airport (as those terms are defined in section 139.5 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation)), under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.
) for costs arising from a release to the environment of a covered perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance.
(c)
Requirements
Subsection (b) shall only apply—
(1)
if the release of a covered perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance by a sponsor resulted from the use of an aqueous film forming foam; and
(2)
if the use described in paragraph (1) was—
(A)
required by the Federal Aviation Administration for compliance with part 139 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations); and
(B)
carried out in accordance with Federal Aviation Administration standards and guidance on the use of that substance.
(d)
Savings provision
Nothing in this section precludes liability for damages or costs associated with the release of a covered perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance by a sponsor if that sponsor acted with gross negligence or willful misconduct in the use of an aqueous film forming foam.
