1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Where Are The Terrorists Now Act
.
2.
Reporting on terrorist watch list
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Terrorist organization
The term
terrorist organization
means—
(A)
an organization described in subclause (I), (II), or (III) of section 212(a)(3)(B)(vi) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(B)(vi)
); and
(B)
any organization that has ever been described in such section 212(a)(3)(B)(vi).
(2)
Terrorist screening database
The term
terrorist screening database
has the meaning given such term in section 2101 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 621
).
(b)
Report
Not later than 14 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and every month thereafter for 1 year, and biannually thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence, submit to Congress a report on individuals encountered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services along a border of the United States or a port of entry, which shall include—
(1)
the number of individuals encountered along a border of the United States or a port of entry that are in the terrorist screening database, and the border or port of entry where they were encountered;
(2)
a description of why each such individual is in the terrorist screening database;
(3)
any ties each such individual has to a terrorist organization;
(4)
the nation of origin of each such individual;
(5)
any previous criminal conviction of each such individual in the United States;
(6)
how each such individual traveled to the border or port of entry, as applicable;
(7)
if the individual has been detained, where they were detained, if they are still detained, how long they were detained, whether they have been deported or transferred to another agency, and their known whereabouts if they have been released;
(8)
if the individual has been released, how the determination was made that the individual does not present a danger to the United States;
(9)
whether, and if so, how many times, the individual has been falsely identified in the terrorist screening database; and
(10)
the total number of individuals added, rejected, or removed from the terrorist screening database since the last report was submitted, and the total number of individuals on the terrorist screening database as of the date of the report.
(c)
Form
To the extent possible, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit each report required under subsection (b) in unclassified form, but may submit such a report, or portion of such a report, in classified form if the Secretary of Homeland Security determines that publication of such report or portion of such report would compromise the national security of the United States.
