1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sanctioning Transfers and Outbound Products to Iran Act of 2023
or the
STOP Iran Act of 2023
.
2.
Requirement for licenses for exports of emerging and foundational technologies to Iranian entities subject to sanctions imposed by the United States
(a)
In general
On and after the date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall require, pursuant to subsection (b) of section 1753 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (
50 U.S.C. 4817
), a license for the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of emerging and foundational technologies identified pursuant to subsection (a) of that section to any Iranian person described in subsection (b).
(b)
Iranian persons described
(1)
In general
An Iranian person is described in this subsection if the Iranian person—
(A)
is—
(i)
on a list specified in paragraph (2); or
(ii)
otherwise subject to sanctions imposed by the United States pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
) or any other provision of law; and
(B)
provides material, tactical, operational, developmental, or financial support to—
(i)
the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps;
(ii)
any agency or instrumentality of the Armed Forces of Iran;
(iii)
any agency or instrumentality related to the nuclear program of Iran;
(iv)
any organization designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
), including Hamas, Hezbollah, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, al-Qa’ida, and al-Shabaab; or
(v)
any entity engaged in hostilities with a country that is a partner or ally of the United States, including the Houthis and Shia militias in Iraq.
(2)
Lists specified
A list specified in this paragraph is any of the following lists maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury:
(A)
The SDN List.
(B)
The List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions.
(C)
The Non-SDN Menu-Based Sanctions List.
(c)
Report required
Not later than 30 days after issuing a license under subsection (a) for the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of emerging and foundational technologies to an Iranian person described in subsection (b), the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes—
(1)
a list of Iranian persons described in subsection (b);
(2)
the rationale for issuing the license, including any findings or evidence relating to support described in subsection (b)(1)(B) provided by the Iranian person; and
(3)
an explanation of why the Iranian person was not subject to export controls under section 1753(b) of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (
50 U.S.C. 4817(b)
) before the date that is 120 days after date of the enactment of this Act that addresses any partial or inconclusive evidence that the person provided support described in subsection (b)(1)(B).
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Export; in-country transfer; reexport
The terms
export
,
in-country transfer
, and
reexport
have the meanings given those terms in section 1742 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (
50 U.S.C. 4801
).
(3)
Iranian person
The term
Iranian person
means—
(A)
an individual who is a citizen or national of Iran; and
(B)
an entity organized under the laws of Iran or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran.
(4)
SDN list
The term
SDN list
means the list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury.
