1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Taiwan and American Space Assistance Act of 2024
.
2.
Space cooperation with Taiwan
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the Secretary of State, may seek to engage the authorities of Taiwan with respect to expanding cooperation between the United States and such authorities on civilian space activities.
(b)
Cooperation efforts
(1)
In general
In seeking to expand cooperation under subsection (a), the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration may carry out efforts to identify and pursue space exploration, space applications, and science initiatives in areas of mutual benefit to the United States and the authorities of Taiwan, consistent with the Taiwan Relations Act (
22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.
) and applicable export regulations, including by—
(A)
cooperating on satellite programs, space exploration programs, and atmospheric and weather programs; and
(B)
conducting—
(i)
personnel exchanges of employees of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration with employees of the Taiwan Space Agency; and
(ii)
activities of mutual benefit relating to commercial space and atmospheric and weather technology and services.
(2)
Protection of sensitive and proprietary information and economic interests of the United States
In carrying out efforts and activities under paragraph (1), the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall take all appropriate measures to protect sensitive information, intellectual property, trade secrets, and the economic interests of the United States.
(c)
Report
(1)
Requirement
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for five years, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the implementation of this section.
(2)
Elements
Each report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the cooperation efforts and activities carried out under subsection (b)(1).
(B)
An identification of any challenge or resource gap that needs to be addressed to expand cooperation between the United States and the authorities of Taiwan on civilian space activities.
(C)
Any other matter the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the Secretary of State consider relevant.
(d)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
