1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Defund United Nations Relief and Works Agency Act of 2024
.
2.
Findings; statement of policy
(a)
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
substantial evidence exists that the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (referred to in this Act as
UNRWA
) aided Hamas terrorists in their attacks against Israel;
(2)
funds intended for the humanitarian relief of Palestinian civilians are being used to fund Hamas; and
(3)
UNRWA has proven through its actions to be at odds with the interests of the United States and its partners in the Middle East.
(b)
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States not to cooperate with or otherwise facilitate the interests of any entity affiliated with or assisting Hamas.
3.
Prohibition on funding
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, no funds previously appropriated or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2024 or any prior fiscal year for UNRWA may be made available.
4.
Immigration ban
(a)
Prohibition on admission
(1)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (b), any individual who is, or has ever been, affiliated with UNRWA may not be admitted to the United States.
(2)
Revocation of nonimmigrant visas
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall revoke any nonimmigrant visa issued to any individual described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Exceptions
The prohibition under subsection (a) shall not apply to—
(1)
United States citizens or nationals or aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence before the date of the enactment of this Act; or
(2)
the admittance of any individual that is required under the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947.
(c)
Conforming amendment
Section 212(a)(3)(B)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(B)(i)
) is amended—
(1)
in subclause (I), by inserting
, which shall include any alien who is an officer, official, representative, or spokesperson of the Palestine Liberation Organization or of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA)
before the semicolon at the end; and
(2)
by striking the undesignated matter following subclause (IX).
5.
Revocation of tax-exempt status
For any taxable year ending after the date of the enactment of this Act, UNRWA USA—
(1)
shall not be treated as described in subsection (c) of
section 501
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
(2)
shall not be exempt from taxation under subsection (a) of such section.
