1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Geospatial Innovation Hub Advancement Act of 2024
.
2.
Pilot program on establishing a geospatial workforce development program
(a)
Pilot program required
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of establishing a program to develop a skilled workforce in geospatial technologies, methodologies, and capabilities to support the defense intelligence requirements of the Department of Defense.
(2)
Designation
The pilot program carried out pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be known as the
Geospatial Workforce Pilot Program
(in this section the
Pilot Program
).
(b)
Goals
In carrying out the Pilot Program, the Secretary shall seek—
(1)
to assess the demand for geospatial technology skills in both military and civilian sectors in proximity to facilities of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency in the United States;
(2)
to expand, align, and accelerate the education, training, and certification of a geospatial workforce;
(3)
to support a global research hub for geospatial science and technology;
(4)
to foster partnerships with secondary and postsecondary educational institutions, industry leaders, and local governments to support the workforce development;
(5)
to increase employment opportunities and economic growth in regions that are in proximity to National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency locations in the United States through enhanced geospatial capabilities; and
(6)
to support Department of Defense operations and infrastructure with a skilled geospatial workforce.
(c)
Location
(1)
In general
In selecting a location for the pilot program required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall prioritize a location—
(A)
where the Secretary can partner with an eligible institution of higher education that—
(i)
conducts research;
(ii)
is in close proximity to National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency facilities outside of the National Capital Region;
(iii)
offers programs of education in geospatial or related matters; and
(iv)
has a demonstrated ability build the professional workforce, by impacting kindergarten through college learning and beyond, as demonstrated by an educational partnership agreement and a collaborative research and development agreement with the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency;
(B)
that has a significant presence of Department of Defense installations or related activities; and
(C)
that demonstrates a strong potential to recruit from a broad spectrum of academic candidates for growth in geospatial technology sectors.
(2)
Eligible institutions of higher education
For purposes of the Pilot Program, an eligible institution of higher education is an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
)) that—
(A)
is an institution of higher education described in paragraph (1)(A);
(B)
has a demonstrated capacity for research and development in geospatial technologies; and
(C)
engages in partnerships with local schools and community organizations to promote geospatial education at all levels.
(d)
Implementation
In carrying out the Pilot Program, the Secretary shall—
(1)
collaborate with local and regional educational institutions, including public research institutions, to develop curriculum and training modules tailored to geospatial technology skills;
(2)
engage with industry partners to ensure the training meets current and future workforce demands;
(3)
provide funding and resources for training facilities, instructors, and materials; and
(4)
monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the training programs and make necessary adjustments to improve outcomes.
(e)
Citizenship requirement
The Secretary shall ensure that participation in the Pilot Program is limited to citizens of the United States.
(f)
Termination
The requirement to carry out a pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on September 30, 2030.
(g)
Reports
(1)
Initial report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the establishment of the Pilot Program.
(2)
Annual report
(A)
Not later than one year after the date of the commencement of the Pilot Program, and not less frequently than once each year thereafter through fiscal year 2030, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives an annual report on the Pilot Program.
(B)
Each report submitted pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall include, for the period covered by the report, the following with respect to the goals of subsection (b):
(i)
An assessment of the demand for geospatial technology skills.
(ii)
The progress in developing and implementing the Pilot Program.
(iii)
Employment outcomes and economic impact.
(iv)
Recommendations for expanding or modifying the Pilot Program.
(h)
Definition of congressional defense committees
In this section, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.
