1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting Access to Capital in Underbanked Communities Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
Trends in bank closures and consolidation have left many communities without access to banking services and disproportionately impact underserved rural and urban communities.
(2)
De novo bank formation has slowed significantly following the financial crisis.
(3)
A November 2019 report by the Federal Reserve System found that 44 counties in the United States were
deeply affected
by trends in bank closures and consolidation, meaning that the counties had fewer than 10 branches in 2012 and lost not less than 50 percent of them by 2017.
(4)
89 percent of the deeply affected counties described in paragraph (3) were rural.
(5)
Rural counties deeply affected by branch closures had higher poverty rates, lower median income, and a higher share of their population were African-American compared to all rural communities.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate Federal banking agency; depository institution; depository institution holding company
The terms
appropriate Federal banking agency
,
depository institution
, and
depository institution holding company
have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (
12 U.S.C. 1813
).
(2)
Community Bank Leverage Ratio
The term
Community Bank Leverage Ratio
has the meaning given that term under section 201(a) of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (
12 U.S.C. 5371
note).
(3)
Financial institution
The term
financial institution
means a depository institution or depository institution holding company.
(4)
Rural community bank
The term
rural community bank
means a financial institution—
(A)
with total consolidated assets of less than $10,000,000,000; and
(B)
located in a rural area, as defined in section 1026.35(b)(2)(iv)(A) of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
4.
Phase-in of capital standards
The appropriate Federal banking agencies shall issue rules that provide for a 3-year phase-in period for a financial institution to meet any Federal capital requirements that would otherwise be applicable to the financial institution, where the 3-year period begins on the date on which the deposit insurance that the financial institution has obtained from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation becomes effective.
5.
Changes to business plans
(a)
In general
During the 3-year period beginning on the date on which the deposit insurance that the financial institution has obtained from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation becomes effective, a financial institution may request to deviate from a business plan that has been approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency by submitting a request to the agency pursuant to this section.
(b)
Review of changes
An appropriate Federal banking agency shall, not later than the end of the 30-day period beginning on the receipt of a request under subsection (a)—
(1)
approve, conditionally approve, or deny the request; and
(2)
notify the financial institution of the decision and, if the agency denies the request—
(A)
provide the financial institution with the reason for the denial; and
(B)
suggest changes to the request that, if adopted, would allow the agency to approve the request.
(c)
Result of failure To act
If an appropriate Federal banking agency fails to approve or deny a request within the 30-day period required under subsection (b), the request shall be deemed to be approved.
6.
Rural community bank leverage ratio
(a)
In general
During the 3-year period beginning on the date on which the deposit insurance that a rural community bank has obtained from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation becomes effective, the Community Bank Leverage Ratio for the rural community bank shall be 8 percent.
(b)
Phase-In authority
The Federal banking agencies shall issue rules to phase-in the Community Bank Leverage Ratio described in subsection (a) with respect to a rural community bank by setting lower Community Bank Leverage Ratio percentages during the first 2 years of the 3-year period described in subsection (a).
7.
Agricultural loan authority for Federal savings associations
Section 5(c) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (
12 U.S.C. 1464(c)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following:
(V)
Agricultural loans
Secured or unsecured loans for agricultural purposes.
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2)(A), by striking
business, or agricultural
and inserting
or business
.
8.
Study on de novo financial institutions
(a)
Study
The appropriate Federal banking agencies shall, jointly, carry out a study on—
(1)
the principal causes for the low number of de novo financial institutions in the 10-year period ending on the date of enactment of this Act; and
(2)
ways to promote more de novo financial institutions in areas currently underserved by financial institutions.
(b)
Report to Congress
Not later than the end of the 1-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the appropriate Federal banking agencies shall, jointly, issue a report to Congress containing all findings and determinations made in carrying out the study required under subsection (a).
