1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Alaska Native Vietnam Era Veterans Land Allotment Extension and Fulfillment Act of 2024
.
2.
Extension of the Alaska Native Vietnam era veterans land allotment program
Section 1119(b)(3)(B) of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
43 U.S.C. 1629g–1(b)(3)(B)
) is amended by striking
5-year period
and inserting
10-year period
.
3.
Making additional land available for selection under the Alaska Native Vietnam era veterans land allotment program
(a)
Wildlife refuge system land
All Federal land identified as suitable for allotment selection in the report under subsection (c)(1) of section 1119 of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
43 U.S.C. 1629g–1
), and published by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in the report entitled
Identification of National Wildlife Refuge System Lands in Alaska That Should Be Made Available for Allotment Selection by Eligible Alaska Native Vietnam Era Veterans
(November 2020), shall be made immediately available by the Secretary of the Interior for selection in accordance with that section.
(b)
Federal land managed by the Forest Service
(1)
Definition of available Federal land
Section 1119(a)(1)(B) of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
43 U.S.C. 1629g–1(a)(1)(B)
) is amended—
(A)
by striking clause (v); and
(B)
by redesignating clauses (vi) through (x) as clauses (v) through (ix), respectively.
(2)
Identification of Federal land
Section 1119 of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
43 U.S.C. 1629g–1
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(e)
Identification of Federal land administered by the Forest Service
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the Secretary, the State, Regional Corporations, and Village Corporations, shall identify available Federal land within units of the National Forest System in the State that should be made available for allotment selection by eligible individuals.
(2)
Exclusions
In identifying available Federal land within units of the National Forest System in the State that should be made available for allotment selection under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall not identify any available Federal land in a unit of the National Forest System—
(A)
the conveyance of which, independently or as part of a group of allotments, could—
(i)
significantly interfere with biological, physical, cultural, scenic, recreational, or subsistence values; or
(ii)
interfere with the management plan of the unit;
(B)
that is located within 300 feet from the shore of a navigable body of water;
(C)
that is not consistent with the purposes for which the unit was established; or
(D)
that is designated by Congress as wilderness.
(3)
Availability of land
All available Federal land identified as suitable for allotment selection under this subsection shall be made immediately available for selection in accordance with this section.
.
