1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Assuring Resupply of Munitions Act of 2024
or the
ARM Act
.
2.
Required provision of military assistance to Israel
(a)
Approval of licenses
Not later than one day after the date of the enactment of this Act and notwithstanding any provision of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.
), the President shall approve all pending requests, applications, and licenses for the export of defense articles or defense services to the Government of Israel.
(b)
Transfer of munitions and weapons
(1)
In general
As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall transfer the defense articles and provide the defense services described in subsection (a) to the Government of Israel.
(2)
Certification
Not later than 10 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 30 days thereafter until December 31, 2025, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes—
(A)
a list of each request, application, or license for the export of defense articles or defense services to the Government of Israel that was pending on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(B)
a certification whether those defense articles or defense services have been provided or, if they have not been provided, an estimate of when they will be provided.
(c)
Prohibition on obstruction of transfers
(1)
Prohibition on obstruction of transfers
No executive officer or employee may halt, defer, or otherwise prevent the transfer of defense articles or defense services described in subsection (a) to the Government of Israel.
(2)
Sunset
The prohibition under paragraph (1) shall terminate one year after the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the state of Israel is not engaged in active hostilities.
(d)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
