1.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the United States should improve cooperation with allies, including Israel, and like-minded partners to systematically map out, expose, and disrupt missile and drone procurement networks used by the Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen and other Iranian proxies targeting United States forces and assets and United States allies and partners in the region;
(2)
the partner countries of the United States, including Iraq and countries on the Arabian Peninsula, face urgent and emerging threats from unmanned aerial systems and other unmanned aerial vehicles;
(3)
joint research and development to counter unmanned aerial systems will serve the national security interests of the United States and its partners in Iraq and on the Arabian Peninsula;
(4)
development of counter Unmanned Aircraft Systems technology will reduce the impacts of these attacks, build deterrence, and increase regional stability; and
(5)
the United States and partners in Iraq and on the Arabian Peninsula should continue to work together to protect against the threat from unmanned aerial systems.
2.
Defined term
In this Act, the term
Arabian Peninsula
means Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Yemen.
3.
Authority to enter into a cooperative agreement to protect civilians in Iraq and on the Arabian Peninsula from weaponized unmanned aerial systems
(a)
In general
The President is authorized to enter into a cooperative project agreement with Iraq and countries on the Arabian Peninsula under the authority of section 27 of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2767
) to carry out research on and development, testing, evaluation, and joint production (including follow-on support) of defense articles and defense services to detect, track, and destroy armed unmanned aerial systems that threaten the United States and its partners in Iraq and on the Arabian Peninsula.
(b)
Applicable requirements
(1)
In general
The cooperative project agreement described in subsection (a)—
(A)
shall provide that any activities carried out pursuant to such agreement are subject to—
(i)
the applicable requirements described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 27(b)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2767(b)(2)
); and
(ii)
any other applicable requirements of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.
) with respect to the use, transfer, and security of such defense articles and defense services under such Act; and
(B)
shall establish a framework to negotiate the rights to intellectual property developed under such agreement.
(2)
Congressional notification requirements
Notwithstanding section 27(g) of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2767(g)
), any defense articles that result from a cooperative project agreement shall be subject to the requirements under subsections (b) and (c) of section 36 of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 2776
).
4.
Rule of construction with respect to use of military force
Nothing in this Act may be construed as an authorization for the use of military force.
