SECTION 1.  . (a) There is hereby continued a   for each of the ten standard Federal regions. Each   shall be composed of the principal regional officials of   Health, Education, and  ,  , the  , and  ,  ,  , and  .

The President shall designate one member of each such   as Chairman of that   and such Chairman shall serve at the pleasure of the President. Representatives of   may participate in any deliberations of each  .

(b) Each member of each   may designate an alternate who shall serve as a member of the   involved whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the  .

(c) When the Chairman determines that matters which significantly affect the interests of the   agencies which are not represented on any such   are to be considered by the  , he shall invite the regional director or other appropriate representative of the agency involved to participate in the deliberations of the  .

 . 2. Functions of the  .   shall be constituted as a body within which the participating agencies will, under the general policy formulation of  , and to the maximum extent feasible, assist   and local government by the coordination of the   program grants and operations through:

(1) the development of better ways to deliver the benefits of Federal programs over the short term;

(2) the development of integrated program and funding plans with   and local chief executives;

(3) the encouragement of joint and complementary Federal grant applications by local and   governments;

(4) the expeditious resolution of conflicts and problems which may arise between Federal agencies;

(5) the evaluation of programs in which two or more member agencies participate;

(6) the development of more effective ways of allocating Federal resources to meet the long-range needs of   and local communities;

(7) the supervision of regional interagency program coordination mechanisms; and

(8) the development of administrative procedures to improve day-to-day cooperation on an interagency and intergovernmental basis.

 . 3. Under  .   is hereby continued and shall be composed of the Under Secretaries of Agriculture, the Interior, Labor, Health, Education, and  ,  , and  , the Administrator of  , the Deputy Director of  , the Deputy Administrator of  , an Associate Director of  , and the Deputy Director of  , who shall serve as the Chairman of the  . When the Chairman determines that matters which significantly affect the interest of   agencies which are not represented on the   are to be considered by the  , he shall invite an appropriate representative of the agency involved to participate in the deliberations of the  .   shall, consistent with the objectives and priorities established by the President and  , establish policy with respect to   matters, provide guidance to the  , respond to their initiatives, and seek to resolve policy issues referred to it by the  .  , under the Chairmanship of the Deputy Director of  , shall be responsible for the proper functioning of the system established by this order.
