SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established the Inter-departmental Committee for   for the Purchase of   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall consist of a Chairman and a Vice Chairman to be appointed by the President for terms of   and the heads of the several   agencies. As used in this order the term "Federal agencies" means departments, establishments, and agencies of the executive branch of the Government. Each member of the   is responsible for the success of the payroll savings program in his agency.

(b) In the event of a vacancy in the chairmanship, or the unavailability of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman will act as Chairman.

(c) Each member of the  , other than the Chairman and the Vice Chairman, may designate an alternate, who shall serve as a member of the   whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the   and who may be authorized to act for the regular member in all appropriate matters relating to the  . In the case of an executive department, an Under Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, or an official of the executive staff of the immediate office of the Secretary may be designated as an alternate member and in the case of any other Federal agency the alternate member shall he designated from among the officials thereof of appropriate rank.

 . 2. The   shall perform the following-described functions and duties:

(a) Formulating and presenting to the several   agencies a plan of organization and sales promotion whereby   will be made available to all uniformed and civilian personnel of the Government for the purchase of  , and whereby all such personnel will be urged to participate.

(b) Assisting the several   agencies in the installation of the said   and in the solution of any special problems that may develop in connection therewith.

(c) Acting as a clearinghouse for the several   agencies in the compilation and dissemination of such statistics and information relative to the execution and sales promotion of the   as may be deemed advantageous.

(d) Recommending to the several Federal agencies any methods for improvements in the program adopted pursuant to the said Plan.

(e) The   will meet at least once each calendar year and at such other times as may be necessary to carry out its responsibilities.

 . 3. Each Federal agency shall institute and put into operation, as soon as practicable, the plan of organization and sales promotion recommended by the  , with such modifications as particular circumstances may render advisable.

 . 4. This order supersedes Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Establishment of the Interdepartmental Committee for Voluntary Payroll Savings Plan for the Purchase of United States Savings Bonds."
