SECTION 1. Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission. It is hereby declared that the Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission is established under the provisions of Title II of   (    et seq.).

 . 2. Jurisdiction of the Commission. It is hereby determined that the jurisdiction of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission referred to in Section 1 of this order shall extend to those portions of  ,  ,  , and   that are located within the Upper Mississippi River drainage basin, defined as the drainage basin of the Mississippi River above the mouth of the Ohio River, excluding the drainage basin of the Missouri River above a point immediately below the mouth of the Gasconade River.

 . 3. Membership of the Commission. It is hereby determined that, in accordance with Section 202 of the Act (42 U.S.C.  ), the   shall consist of the following members:

(1) a Chairman to be appointed by the President,

(2) one member from each of the following   departments and agencies:  ;  ;  ;  , and  ;  ;    ;  ;  ; and  ; such member to be appointed by the head of the department or independent agency he represents,

(3) one member from each of the following  :  ,  ,  ,  , and  ,

(4) one member from each interstate agency created by an interstate compact to which the consent of   has been given and whose jurisdiction extends to the waters of the area specified in Section 2.

 . 4. Functions, Powers, and Duties. The   and its officers, members, and employees shall perform and exercise, with respect to the area specified in Section 2 of this order, their respective functions, powers, and duties as set out in Title II of  .

 . 5. Consultation with Adjoining States. The   is expected to provide for procedures for consultation with  ,  , and   on any matter which might affect the water and related land resources of the headwater drainages of the Mississippi River Basin in those   and to give notice to those   of meetings of the  .

 . 6. Reporting to the President. The Chairman of the   shall report to the President through  .
