  for   (hereinafter referred to as "the  ") was established in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of   (Public Law 92-203, 85 Stat. 688 which is hereinafter referred to as "the Act") to render advice to   and the government of the State of   with respect to the planning, ownership, use, and management of lands located in    . Section 17(a) (5) of the Act provides that   employees may be hired

. . . without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointment in the competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General   pay rates . . .

and gives the Federal and State co-chairmen the authority "to appoint and fix the compensation of such staff personnel as they deem necessary."

Pursuant to this authority,  , then  , and Governor  , State Co-Chairman, agreed prior to the hiring of the first   employee that all such employees should be compensated in accordance with the pay scale for General Schedule Federal employees and should receive a cost-of-living allowance (hereinafter referred to as "COLA") identical to that provided other General   employees serving in  , said agreement being formalized in a regulation initially released on  , and subsequently amended to read as follows:

"4.4 Compensation of Staff.

(a) Employees of the   shall be paid at a   rate of salary determined for their respective positions by the co-chairmen and/or Director; and shall be entitled to receive a twenty-five (25%) percent living cost differential in addition to the base rate of salary which shall be accounted for separately from the base salary.

(b) Employees of the   shall also be entitled to obtain and receive all insurance, leave, retirement, and other benefits available to Federal employees in  ."

With respect to the Federal taxation of this allowance, 26 U.S.C. Section 912 provides in relevant part:

"The following items shall not be included in gross income, and shall be exempt from taxation under this subtitle:

(2) Cost-of-living allowances.—In the case of civilian officers or employees of   stationed outside the continental   (other than  ), amounts (other than amounts received under title II of  ) received as cost-of-living allowances in accordance with regulations approved by the President."

In an opinion dated  ,   held that employees hired by the   are Federal employees within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. Section 912 (2) but concluded for the reasons set out below that the   provided to them pursuant to   4.4 is subject to Federal taxation.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by 26 U.S.C. Section 912 (2) and for the reasons set out below, I hereby approve   4.4 subject to the qualifications and limitations provided in the next two sentences. Said approval shall be retroactive to the date when   employee was hired, shall apply only to the   paid   employees actually serving in  , and shall remain in effect as long as: (a) the pay scale for   personnel corresponds exactly to that applicable to General Schedule Federal employees; (b) that portion of   which deals with the payment of   remains effective in substantially its present form; and (c)   is provided pursuant to Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Regulations Governing Additional Compensation and Credit Granted Certain Employees of the Federal Government Serving Outside  ," to General Schedule Federal employees serving in  . Except where expressly inconsistent with this order, the requirements of Executive Order No. 10000 shall govern the payment of   granted to   employees.

This order is based on the following findings and conclusions:

1. Pursuant to Executive Order No.  ,   has been delegated the authority granted to the President in 5 U.S.C. Section 5941 to designate areas outside the contiguous forty-eight states where certain Federal employees are entitled to receive   to compensate them, among other things, for living costs which are substantially higher than those in  . In accordance with this authority, the   has designated   as a location where General   employees are to be paid a 25 percent COLA. Under 26 U.S.C. Section 912(2), this allowance is exempt from Federal taxation.

2. Pursuant to the authority granted in Section 17(a) (5) of the Act, the  , with the approval of the co-chairmen, has promulgated a valid regulation authorizing the provision of the same   employees serving in   that is paid to General   employees serving there.

3.  , which provides administrative support to the  , accounts for the   paid to   employees in accordance with Government practices customarily utilized in   for such purposes.

4. The  , with the approval of the co-chairmen, has agreed upon a pay scale for compensating staff personnel which corresponds exactly to that enacted by   for compensating General Schedule Federal employees.

5. Since the appointment and compensation of   employees are expressly exempted from   laws by Section 17(a) (5) of the Act, the   provided to such personnel is not subject to the approval of   under Executive Order No.  , which, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. Section 5941, applies only to employees whose rates of basic pay are fixed by statute. For this reason,   has ruled that such   is subject to Federal income taxation as not having been paid in accordance with the regulations approved by the President as required by 26 U.S.C. Section 912(2).

6. The underlying reasons for granting a   to General   employees serving in   and elsewhere and for exempting said   from Federal income taxation apply equally to the COLA provided to   employees. (In fact, because Section 17(a) (4) (B) of the   expressly provides that the   cochairman shall be compensated at a rate not to exceed that fixed for level V executive employees, the   paid to him is exempt from   taxation under 26 U.S.C. Section 912 (2).) These reasons include the high cost of living in  , the need to attract qualified employees to the Federal service, and the fact that, with certain exceptions not relevant here,   employees have the same obligations and responsibilities and receive the same benefits as General   employees.

7. There is nothing in 5 U.S.C. Section 5941, 26 U.S.C. Section 912, the relevant legislative history, or any other source to indicate that  , in enacting these provisions, intended to deny a Federal tax exemption for the COLA of workers who occupy the status and have the employment characteristics which pertain to   personnel.

8. If this   order is not issued, a significant inequity will result in that taxpayers who are similarly situated in all relevant respects will be treated differently under the   laws respecting income taxation.

9. Given the unique circumstances of this case, including the discretion granted to the   and   cochairmen of the   to fix employees' salaries without reference to   laws relating to the appointment and compensation of personnel and the physical situs of the   in a locale where   is authorized for General   employees, it is most unlikely that this order will set a precedent which transcends the facts which are operative here or will jeopardize the tax gathering efforts of  .
