Section 1. Amendment to Executive Order  . (a) Section 1(a) of Executive Order  , is revised to read as follows:

"Section 1. (a) Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of   (  and  ),  , and   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are hereby blocked."

(b) Section 2 of Executive Order   is hereby revoked, and a new section 2 is added to read as follows:

"Sec. 2. Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the following are prohibited:

"(a) the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from  , or by a   person, wherever located, to    and  ) or    and  ),  , or  , of any goods (including petroleum and petroleum products), software, technology (including technical data), or services;

"(b) the importation into  , directly or indirectly, of any goods, software, technology (including technical data), or services from    and  ) or owned or controlled by    and  ),  , or  ; and "(c) any transaction or dealing by a   person, wherever located, in goods, software, technology (including technical data), or services, regardless of country of origin, for exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply to, or exportation from or by,    and  ) or    and  ),  , or  . This prohibition includes, without limitation, purchase, sale, transport, swap, or brokerage transactions in such items, and approving, financing, insuring, facilitating, or guaranteeing any such transactions."

(c) Section 4 of Executive Order   is revised to read as follows:

" . 4. Any transaction by a   person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited. Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions of this order is prohibited."

(d) Section 7 of Executive Order   is revised to read as follows:

"Sec. 7. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall give special consideration to the circumstances of   and persons located in and organized

under the laws of   in the implementation of this order.

"(b) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall give special consideration to the humanitarian needs of refugees from   and other civilians within    and  ) in the implementation of this order.

"(c) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby directed to authorize commercial sales of agricultural commodities and products, medicine, and medical equipment for civilian end use in the territory of    and  ) under appropriate safeguards to prevent diversion to military, paramilitary, or political use by    and  ),  , or  ."

Sec. 2.  . Nothing in this order is intended to affect the continued effectiveness of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect heretofore or hereafter under the authority of IEEPA, except as hereafter terminated, modified, or suspended by the issuing   agency.

 . 3. No rights or privileges conferred. Nothing contained in this order shall confer any substantive or procedural right or privilege on any person or organization, enforceable against  , its agencies or its officers.

 . 4. (a) Effective date. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

(b) Transmittal; Publication. This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
