Section 1. Delegation and Reservation of Functions.

1-101. Exclusive of the functions otherwise delegated, or reserved to the President by this order, there are delegated to the Secretary of   ("Secretary") all functions conferred upon the President by the Act, in concluding the authority under section 7(a) of the Act to specify which laws of   relative to the provision of consular services may be administered by employees of   ("Institute"). In carrying out these functions, the Secretary may redelegate his authority, and shall consult with other departments and agencies as he deems appropriate.

1-102. There are delegated to the Director of   the functions conferred upon the President by paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 11(a) of the Act. These functions shall be exercised in consultation with the Secretary.

1-103. There are reserved to the President the functions conferred upon the President by section 3, the second sentence of section 9(b), and the determination specified in section 10(a) of the Act.

 . 2. Specification of Laws and Determinations.

2-201. Pursuant to section 9(b) of the Act, and in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, the procurement of services may be effected by the   without regard to the following provisions of law and limitations of authority as they may be amended from time to time:

(a) Sections 1301(d) and   of title 31, United States Code, and section 3732 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 11) to the extent necessary to permit the indemnification of contractors against unusually hazardous risks, as defied in   contracts, consistent, to the extent practicable, with section   of the Federal Acquisition Regulations;

(b) Section 3324 of title 31, United States Code;

(c) Sections  , and 3735 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (41 U.S.C. 5,  , and 13);

(d) Section 2 of title III of the Act of   (41 U.S.C.  );

(e) Title III of   of  , as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613);

(f) The Contract Disputes Act of  ; as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613);

(g) Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code (10 U.S.C.  );

(h) The Act of   (the "Anti-Wunderlich Act") (41 U.S.C. 321, 322); and

(i) Section (f) of 41 U.S.C. 423.

2-202. (a) With respect to cost-type contracts with the   under which no fee is charged or paid, amendments and modifications of such contracts may be made with or without consideration and may be utilized to accomplish the same things any original contract could have accomplished, irrespective of the time or circumstances of the making, or the form of the contract amended or modified, or of the amending or modifying contract and irrespective of rights that may have accrued under the contractor the amendments or modifications thereof.

(b) With respect to contracts heretofore or hereafter made under the act, other than those described in subsection (a) of this section, amendments and modifications of such contracts may be made with or without consideration and may be utilized to accomplish the same things as any original contract could have accomplished, irrespective of the time or circumstances of the making, or the form of the contract amended or modified, or of the amending or modifying contract, and irrespective of rights that may have accrued under the contract or the amendments or modifications thereof, if the Secretary determines in each case that such action is necessary to protect the foreign policy interests of  .

2-203. Pursuant to section 10(a) of the Act,   in   ("TECRO"), formerly   (" "), is determined to be the instrumentality established by the people on   having the necessary authority under the laws applied by the people on   to provide assurances and take other actions on behalf of   in accordance with the Act. Nothing contained in this determination or order shall affect, or be construed to affect, the continued validity of agreements, contracts or other undertakings, of whatever kind or nature, entered into previously by  .

 . 3. President's Memorandum of  .

3-301 Agreements and arrangements referred to in paragraph (B) of President  's memorandum of  , entitled "Relations With the People on Taiwan" (44 FR 1075) shall, unless otherwise terminated or modified in accordance with law, continue in force and be performed in accordance with the Act and this order.

 . 4. General. This order supersedes Executive Order No.  .

   ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:24 a.m.,  ]
