Section 1. Policy.  ,  , and all executive branch agencies shall lead the country in a national and educational celebration of our culture, democracy, and citizenry.   has a special responsibility to inspire the   people to reflect upon and commemorate the achievements of this country's past and to celebrate the possibilities of the future. To carry forward this country's great democratic tradition and enrich the lives of our children and the children of  , the   shall encourage   to make plans to mark   in communities across  . By leading this country in a grand educational celebration of the past and future,   has an unprecedented opportunity to energize and unite the Nation with a renewed sense of optimism in the accomplishments and promise of  .

 . 2.  . (a) To enable  ,  , and executive branch agencies to provide national leadership in this historic time, I hereby announce the formation of  .

(b)   shall be composed of a Director, Deputy Director, administrative staff, and a representative from each of the following:

(1)  ; (2) Department of the  ; (3)  ; (4)  ; (5) Department of the  ; (6)  ; (7)  ; ( ; (9)  ; (10)  ; (11)  ; (12)  ; (13)  ; (14)  ; (15)  ; (16)  ; (17)  ; (18)  ; and (19)  .

At the Director's discretion, the Director may request other agencies to be represented on the  .

(c) The mission of the   is to lead the country in a celebration of   by initiating and recognizing national and local projects that contribute in educational, creative, and productive ways to  's commemoration of this historic time. To these ends, the   shall:

(1) Mark the 200th anniversary of the occupancy of   by  , the 200th anniversary of the establishment of the Federal capital city in  ,  , and the 200th anniversary of the first meeting of the   in the Capitol, celebrating these events in   as milestones in our democratic system of government;

(2) Plan events to recognize the history and past accomplishments of   that reflect upon the present forces shaping society and that encourage thoughtful planning for the future;

(3) Produce informational and resource materials to educate the   people concerning our  's past and to inspire thought concerning the future;

(4) Encourage communities and citizens to initiate and to participate in local projects that inspire   to remember their past achievements, understand the present challenges to society, and make concrete contributions to the next generations of their families, communities, and country;

(5) Work with Federal agencies, the  , elected officials, and all citizens to plan activities and programs that will unite the   people in contemplation and celebration of   and  ;

(6) Make recommendations to the Secretary of the   regarding the provision of assistance from funds made available for     in   to public and private entities that are protecting  's threatened cultural treasures. These treasures include significant documents, works of art, maps, journals, and historic structures that document and illuminate the history and culture of  ;

(7) Encourage Federal agencies to develop programs to commemorate and celebrate the new millennium in ways consistent with their individual agency missions and that advance a more unified   in  ;

(8) Encourage Federal agencies, through local branches and offices, to reach out into communities and inspire citizens to participate in grassroots activities and to give permanent gifts to the future;

(9) Work in partnership with private-sector and nonprofit entities that initiate productive and worthwhile national and community-based efforts to commemorate   and encourage citizen participation, volunteerism, and philanthropy;

(10) Highlight public and private millennium initiatives that promote the goals of the  ; and

(11) Cooperate with other nations that are planning   events to expand the opportunities for international communication and understanding.

 . 3. Administration. To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide such information and assistance as may be necessary for the   to carry out its functions.

 . 4.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any other person.
