Section 1. Civil Service Rule V (5 CFR Part 5) is amended in section

5.2 by striking subsection (d).

 . 2. Civil Service Rule VII (5 CFR Part 7) is amended —

(a)

by striking section 7.2;

(b)

by redesignating sections 7.3 and 7.4 as sections 7.2 and 7.3, respectively; and

(c)

by amending the table of sections to read as follows:

" .

7.1 Discretion in filling vacancies.

7.2 Reemployment rights.

7.3 Citizenship."

 . 3. Two new   are added at the end of Civil Service Rule VIII to read as follows:

"PART 9—WORKFORCE INFORMATION (RULE IX)

 .

9.1 Definition.

9.2 Reporting workforce information.

§ 9.1 Definition.

As used in this rule, ’Executive agency’ means an Executive department, a Government corporation, and an independent establishment, as those terms are defined in chapter 1 of title 5, United States Code, but does not include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and, as determined by the President, any Executive agency or unit within an   agency which has as its principal function the conduct of foreign intelligence or counterintelligence activities.

§ 9.2 Reporting workforce information.

The Director of   may require all Executive agencies to report information relating to civilian employees, including positions and employees in the competitive, excepted, and Senior Executive

services, in a manner and at times prescribed by the Director. The Director shall establish standards for workforce information submissions under this section, and agencies shall ensure that their submissions meet these standards consistent with the Privacy Act. The Director may exempt from this section a specific agency or group of employees when the Director determines that an exemption is appropriate because of special circumstances.

PART 10— ;

OPM AUTHORITY TO REVIEW PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS (RULE X)

Sec.

10.1 Definitions.

10.2 Accountability systems.

10.3 OPM authority to review personnel management programs and practices.

§ 10.1 Definitions.

For purposes of this rule —

(a)

’agency’ means an   agency as defined in  , but does not include a Government corporation or  ; and

(b)

’merit system principles’ means the principles for   personnel management that are set forth in section 2301(b) of title 5, United States Code.

§ 10.2. Accountability systems.

The Director of   may require an agency to establish and maintain a system of accountability for merit system principles that (1) sets standards for applying the merit system principles, (2) measures the agency’s effectiveness in meeting these standards, and (3) corrects any deficiencies in meeting these standards.

§ 10.3. OPM authority to review personnel management

programs and practices.

  may review the human resources management programs and practices of any agency and report to the head of the agency and the President on the effectiveness of these programs and practices, including whether they are consistent with the merit system principles."
