Section 1.  .

1-101. The   agencies and departments having principal management or jurisdictional authorities in the Lake Tahoe Region are directed to establish   ("Partnership").

1-102. Members of the Partnership shall include the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , the Secretary of the  , and the heads of any other Federal agencies operating in the Region that choose to participate. Representation on the Partnership may be delegated. The Partnership shall be chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture for   after its establishment. The Chair of the Partnership shall thereafter be rotated among the members on an   basis.

1-103. The Partnership will:

(a) facilitate coordination of Federal programs, projects, and activities within the Lake Tahoe Region and promotion of consistent policies and strategies to address the Region's environmental and economic concerns;

(b) encourage Federal agencies within the Region to coordinate and share resources and data, avoid unnecessary duplication of Federal efforts, and eliminate inefficiencies in Federal action to the greatest extent feasible;

(c) ensure that   agencies closely coordinate with   and   and appropriate tribal or local government entities to facilitate the achievement of desired terrestrial and aquatic ecosystem conditions and the enhancement of recreation, tourism, and other economic opportunities within the Region;

(d) support appropriate regional programs and studies needed to attain environmental threshold standards for water quality, transportation, air quality, vegetation, soils (stream environment zone restoration), wildlife habitat, fish habitat, scenic resources, recreation, and noise;

(e) encourage the development of appropriate public, private, and tribal partnerships for the restoration and management of   ecosystem and the health of the local economy;

(f) support appropriate actions to improve the water quality of   through all appropriate means, including restoration of shorelines, streams, riparian zones, wetlands, and other parts of the watershed; management of uses of the lake; and control of airborne and other sources of contaminants;

(g) encourage the development of appropriate vegetative management actions necessary to attain a healthy Lake Tahoe ecosystem, including a program of revegetation, road maintenance, obliteration, and promotion of forest health;

(h) support appropriate regional transportation and air quality goals, programs, and studies for the Region;

(i) support appropriate fisheries and wildlife habitat restoration programs for the Region, including programs for endangered species and uncommon species;

(j) facilitate coordination of research and monitoring activities for purposes of developing a common natural resources data base and geographic information system capability, in cooperation with appropriate regional and local colleges and universities;

(k) support development of and communication about appropriate recreation plans and programs, appropriate scenic quality improvement programs, and recognition for traditional Washoe tribal uses;

(l) support regional partnership efforts to inform the public of the values of managing the Lake Tahoe Region to achieve environmental and economic goals;

(m) explore opportunities for public involvement in achieving its activities; and

(n) explore opportunities for assisting regional governments in their efforts.

1-104. The Partnership will report back to the President in   on the implementation of the terms of this order.

 . 2. Memorandum of Agreement.

2-201. The Partnership shall negotiate a Memorandum of Agreement with   and  ,  ,  , and interested local governments.

2-202. The Memorandum of Agreement shall be designed to facilitate coordination among the parties to the  , and shall document areas of mutual interest and concern and opportunities for cooperation, support, or assistance.

 . 3.  .

3-301. The Chair of the Partnership shall advise the President on the implementation of this order. The   may recommend other administrative actions that may be taken to improve the coordination of agency actions and decisions whenever such coordination would protect and enhance the Region's natural, ecological, and economic values.

3-302. Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit, delay, or prohibit any agency action that is essential for the protection of public health or safety, for national security, or for the maintenance or rehabilitation of environmental quality within the Region.

3-303. Nothing in this order is intended to create, and this order does not create, any right to administrative or judicial review, or any other right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
