Section 1. Establishment. (a) The Secretary of   (the "Secretary") shall establish an HIV/AIDS Advisory Council ( " or  "), to be known as  . The   shall be composed of not more than 30 members to be appointed or designated by the Secretary. The   shall comply with  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.).

(b) The Secretary shall designate a   from among the members of  .

 . 2. Functions. The   shall provide advice, information, and recommendations to the Secretary regarding programs and policies intended to (a) promote effective prevention of HIV disease,

(b) advance research on HIV and AIDS, and (c) promote quality services to persons living with HIV disease and AIDS. The functions of the   shall be solely advisory in nature. The Secretary shall provide the President with copies of all written reports provided to the Secretary by  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide   with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Any members of   that receive compensation shall be compensated in accordance with Federal law. Committee members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. section 5701-5707).

(c) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide   with such funds and support as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, any functions of the President under   that are applicable to  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch, and it is not intended to create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, it officers, or any person.
