Section 1. Establishment of an Interagency Task Force on the Economic Development of the Southwest Border. (a) There is established  " (Task Force) that reports to the Vice President, as Chair of the President's   ( ), and to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, as Vice Chair of the PCEB.

(b) The Task Force shall comprise the Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , the Attorney General, Secretary of the  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Secretary of the  , Director of  , Director of  , Administrator of  , Administrator of  , or their designees, and such other senior executive branch officials as may be determined by    . The Secretaries of the  ,  , and   shall  , rotating  . The agency chairing   will provide administrative support for  .

(c) The purpose of   is to coordinate and better leverage existing Administration efforts for  , in concert with locally led efforts, in order to increase the living standards and the overall economic profile of   so that it may achieve the average of the Nation. Specifically, the Task Force shall:

(1) analyze the existing programs and policies of Task Force members that relate to   to determine what changes, modifications, and innovations should be considered;

(2) consider statistical and data analysis, research, and policy studies related to  ;

(3) develop and recommend short-term and long-term options for promoting sustainable economic development;

(4) consult and coordinate activities with  , tribal, and local governments, community leaders, Members of  , the private sector, and other interested parties, paying particular attention to maintaining existing authorities of the  , tribes, and local governments, and preserving their existing working relationships with other agencies, organizations, or individuals;

(5) coordinate and collaborate on research and demonstration priorities of Task Force members agencies related to  ;

(6) integrate Administration initiatives and programs into the design of sustainable economic development actions for  ; and (7) focus initial efforts on pilot communities for implementing a coordinated and expedited Federal response to local economic development and other needs.

(d) The Task Force shall issue an interim report to the Vice President by  . The Task Force shall issue its first annual report to the Vice President by  , with subsequent reports to follow yearly and a final report on  . The reports shall describe the actions taken by, and progress of, each member of   in carrying out this order. The Task Force shall terminate   after submitting its final report unless a Task Force consensus recommends continuation of activities.

 . 2. Specific Activities by Task Force Members and Other Agencies. The agencies represented on the Task Force shall work together and report their actions and progress in carrying out this order to     before the reports are due to the Vice President under section 1(d) of this order.

 . 3. Cooperation. All efforts taken by agencies under sections 1 and 2 of this order shall, as appropriate, further partnerships and cooperation with organizations that represent   and with   and local governments.

 . 4. (a) "Agency" means an executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.

(b) The "Southwest Border" or "Southwest Border region" is defined as including the areas up to 150 miles north of   border in    ,  ,  , and  .

 . 5.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.
