Section 1. Establishment. There is established  ,  , and Economic Change in the New Economy" (Commission). The   shall be composed of up to 14 persons to be appointed by the President from individuals who represent   or local agencies relating to workforce or community development, economists or other workforce development experts, labor organizations, business leaders, and Members of  . The President shall designate a   from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. The   shall conduct a study of matters relating to economic dislocation, and worker and community adjustment to such dislocations. In carrying out this study, the   shall examine:

(a)

the impact of international trade, technology, globalization, and the changing nature of work on both workers and their communities;

(b)

the effectiveness of existing Federal programs in assisting workers and communities in adjusting to economic change, including the adequacy of the design of such programs;

(c)

the strategies for providing workplace education and training to assist workers in acquiring new skills;

(d)

the strategies for assisting communities to adjust to changing economic conditions and changes in the mix of employment opportunities in those communities;

(e)

the role of public-private partnerships in implementing job training and community assistance; and

(f)

the role of income support and economic security programs in facili

tating worker adjustment to rapidly changing economic circumstances.  . 3. Report. Not   after the first meeting of the  , the   shall prepare and submit to the President and the   a report that contains a detailed statement of the findings and conclusions of the  ’s study carried out under section 2 of this order, and includes:

(1)

a summary of best practices and policies carried out by employers and public-private partnerships in providing workers with the education and training needed to effectively adjust to economic change;

(2)

a summary of best practices and policies carried out by or on behalf of communities in responding to large-scale economic changes; and

(3)

any recommendations relating to legislative and administrative actions

that the   determines to be appropriate.  . 4. Administration. (a) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . While engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(b)   shall provide the   with funding and administrative support. The   may have paid staff. In addition, appropriate Federal agencies may be requested to designate staff to assist with the work of the  . The Secretary of   shall perform the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), except that of reporting to the  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 5.  . The   shall terminate   after submitting its report.
