Section 1. Reduction of Unfunded Mandates. (a) To the extent feasible and permitted by law, no executive department or agency ("agency") shall promulgate any regulation that is not required by statute and that creates a mandate upon a  , local, or tribal government, unless:

(1)

funds necessary to pay the direct costs incurred by the  , local, or tribal government in complying with the mandate are provided by  ; or

(2)

the agency, prior to the formal promulgation of regulations containing the proposed mandate, provides to the Director of   a description of the extent of the agency’s prior consultation with representatives of affected  , local, and tribal governments, the nature of their concerns, any written communications submitted to the agency by such units of government, and the agency’s position supporting the need to issue the regulation containing the mandate.

(b)

Each agency shall develop an effective process to permit elected officials and other representatives of  , local, and tribal governments to provide meaningful and timely input in the development of regulatory proposals containing significant unfunded mandates.  . 2. Increasing Flexibility for State and  . (a) Each agency shall review its waiver application process and take appropriate steps to streamline that process.

(b)

Each agency shall, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, consider any application by a  , local, or tribal government for a waiver of statutory or regulatory requirements in connection with any program administered by that agency with a general view toward increasing opportunities for utilizing flexible policy approaches at the  , local, and tribal level in cases in which the proposed waiver is consistent with the applicable Federal policy objectives and is otherwise appropriate.

(c)

Each agency shall, to the fullest extent practicable and permitted by law, render a decision upon a complete application for a waiver within

  of receipt of such application by the agency. If the application for a waiver is not granted, the agency shall provide the applicant with timely written notice of the decision and the reasons therefor.

(d) This section applies only to statutory or regulatory requirements of

the programs that are discretionary and subject to waiver by the agency.  . 3. Responsibility for Agency Implementation. The Chief Operating Officer of each agency shall be responsible for ensuring the implementation of and compliance with this order.

 . 4. Executive  .  . This order shall supplement but not supersede the requirements contained in Executive Order No.   ("Regulatory Planning and Review").

 . 5. Scope. (a) Executive agency means any authority of   that is an "agency" under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(10).

(b) Independent agencies are requested to comply with the provisions

of this order. Sec. 6.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7.  . This order shall be effective   after the date of this order.
