Part I. Assessment of Intelligence Activities

Section 1.1. There is hereby established within  ,   of the President, the President's   (Pfiab). The   shall consist of not more than 16 members, who shall serve at the pleasure of the President and shall be appointed by the President from among trustworthy and distinguished citizens outside the Government who are qualified on the basis of achievement, experience and independence. The President shall establish the terms of the members upon their appointment. To the extent practicable, one-third of the   at any one time shall be comprised of members whose term of service does not exceed  . The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members. The   shall utilize full-time staff and consultants as authorized by the President. Such staff shall be headed by an Executive Director, appointed by the President.

 . 1.2. The   shall assess the quality, quantity, and adequacy of intelligence collection, of analysis and estimates, and of counterintelligence and other intelligence activities. The   shall have the authority to review continually the performance of all agencies of   that are engaged in the collection, evaluation, or production of intelligence or the execution of intelligence policy. The   shall further be authorized to assess the adequacy of management, personnel and organization in the intelligence agencies. The heads of departments and agencies of  , to the extent permitted by law, shall provide the   with access to all information that the   deems necessary to carry out its responsibilities.

 . 1.3. The   shall report directly to the President and advise him concerning the objectives, conduct, management and coordination of the various activities of the agencies of  . The   shall report periodically, but at least semiannually, concerning its findings and appraisals and shall make appropriate recommendations for the improvement and enhancement of the intelligence efforts of  .

 . 1.4. The   shall consider and recommend appropriate action with respect to matters, identified to the   by the Director of  ,  , or other Government agencies engaged in intelligence or related activities, in which the advice of the   will further the effectiveness of the national intelligence effort. With respect to matters deemed appropriate by the President, the   shall advise and make recommendations to the Director of  ,  , and other Government agencies engaged in intelligence and related activities, concerning ways to achieve increased effectiveness in meeting national intelligence needs.

Part II. Oversight of  . 2.1.  ) is hereby established as a standing committee of the  . The Iob shall consist of no more than four members appointed from among the membership of the   by the Chairman of the  . The Chairman of the Iob shall be appointed by the Chairman of the  . The Chairman of the   may also serve as the Chairman of the Iob. The Iob shall utilize such full-time staff and consultants as authorized by the Chairman of the  .

 . 2.2. The Iob shall:

(a) prepare for the President reports of intelligence activities that the   believes may be unlawful or contrary to Executive order or Presidential directive;

(b) forward to the Attorney General reports received concerning intelligence activities that the   believes may be unlawful or contrary to Executive order or Presidential directive;

(c) review the internal guidelines of each agency within   that concern the lawfulness of intelligence activities;

(d) review the practices and procedures of   and General Counsel of   for discovering and reporting intelligence activities that may be unlawful or contrary to Executive order or Presidential directive; and

(e) conduct such investigations as the   deems necessary to carry out its functions under this order.

 . 2.3. The Iob shall, when required by this order, report to the President through the Chairman of the  . The Iob shall consider and take appropriate action with respect to matters identified by the Director of  ,   or other agencies of the Intel- ligence  . With respect to matters deemed appropriate by the President, the Iob shall advise and make appropriate recommendations to the Director of  ,   and other agencies of  .

 . 2.4. The heads of departments and agencies of  , to the extent permitted by law, shall provide the Iob with all information that the   deems necessary to carry out its responsibilities. Inspectors General and   of  , to the extent permitted by law, shall report to the  , at least on a   basis and from time to time as necessary or appro- priate, concerning intelligence activities that they have reason to believe may be unlawful or contrary to Executive order or Presidential directive.

Part III. General Provisions

Sec. 3.1. Information made available to the  , or members of the   acting in their   capacity, shall be given all necessary security protection in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Each member of the  , each member of the  's staff and each of the  's consultants shall execute an agreement never to reveal any classified information obtained by virtue of his or her services with the   except to the President or to such persons as the President may designate.

 . 3.2. Members of the   shall serve without compensation but may receive transportation expenses and per diem allowance as authorized by law. Staff and consultants to the   shall receive pay and allowances as authorized by the President.

 . 3.3. Executive  .   of  , as amended, and Executive Order No.  , as amended, are revoked.
