Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the "President’s Commission on Improving Economic Opportunity in Communities Dependent on Tobacco Production while  " (the "Commission"). The   shall be composed of not more than 10 members to be selected by the Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the President. The members may include tobacco producers and quota holders; public health experts;  , and local government representatives; and experts in agricultural economics and economic development.

(b) Two co-chairs shall be selected by the Secretary of Agriculture from the membership of the  . The co-chairs shall report to the President through the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  .

 . 2. Purpose. The   shall advise the President on changes occurring in the tobacco farming economy and recommend such measures as may be necessary to improve economic opportunity and development in communities that are dependent on tobacco production, while protecting consumers, particularly children, from hazards associated with smoking.

 . 3. Functions. (a) The   shall collect and review information about changes in the tobacco farming economy and  , and local initiatives intended to help tobacco growers, tobacco quota holders, and communities dependent on tobacco production pursue new economic opportunities. The   may make recommendations concerning these, and any other, changes and initiatives that may be necessary to improve economic opportunity in communities dependent on tobacco production. It shall also consider the public health implications of such changes and initiatives, including the efforts to reduce youth smoking and tobaccorelated health consequences in   and abroad.

(b) For the purpose of carrying out its functions, the   may hold hearings, establish subcommittees, and convene and act at such times and places as the   may find advisable.

 . 4. Reports. The   shall make a preliminary report to the President by  . A final report shall be submitted to the President   after the  ’s first meeting.

 . 5. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide the  , upon request, with such information as it may require for the purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) While engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701–  ) to the extent funds are available for such purposes.

(c) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of the  ’s functions. Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , that are applicable to the   shall be performed by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with guidelines that have been issued by  .

 . 6. General. The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report, but not   from the date of this order, unless extended by the President.
