1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Mitigating Attacks on Diplomats Act
.
2.
Acoustic attack study
(a)
Study required
The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Energy, and in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, shall carry out a study to determine the appropriate standards and procedures that—
(1)
can be used to counter hypersonic acoustic attacks on Foreign Service officers and their families; and
(2)
include methods to support physical protection practices and procedures applicable to United States embassies, consulates, and embassy residences.
(b)
Reports to Congress
(1)
Preliminary findings
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees the initial findings of the study required under subsection (a).
(2)
Report
Not later than 360 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report containing the complete findings of the study required under subsection (a).
(3)
Form of report
The findings required under paragraph (1) and the report required under paragraph (2) shall be provided and submitted, respectively, in unclassified form, but may contain classified annexes.
(c)
Definition
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
in the House of Representatives—
(i)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs;
(ii)
the Committee on Armed Services;
(iii)
the Committee on Homeland Security; and
(iv)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence; and
(B)
in the Senate—
(i)
the Committee on Foreign Relations;
(ii)
the Committee on Armed Services;
(iii)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs; and
(iv)
the Select Committee on Intelligence.
(2)
Foreign Service officer
The term
Foreign Service officer
has the meaning given such term in section 103 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (
22 U.S.C. 3903
).
