1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding Sanctions Against IranГўВҖВҷs Revolutionary Guard Corps Act
.
2.
Findings and sense of Congress
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
IranГўВҖВҷs Revolutionary Guard Corps has been designated underГўВҖВ”
(A)
Executive Order 13224 (September 23, 2001; relating to Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions with Persons who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism);
(B)
Executive Order 13382 (June 28, 2005; relating to Blocking Property of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators and Their Supporters);
(C)
Executive Order 13553 (September 28, 2010; relating to Blocking Property of Certain Persons With Respect to Serious Human Rights Abuses by the Government of Iran and Taking Certain Other Actions); and
(D)
Executive Order 13606 (April 22, 2012; relating to Blocking the Property and Suspending Entry Into the United States of Certain Persons With Respect to Grave Human Rights Abuses by the Governments of Iran and Syria via Information Technology).
(2)
IranГўВҖВҷs Revolutionary Guard Corps controls a significant portion of IranГўВҖВҷs economy, and whose income makes it one of IranГўВҖВҷs most powerful economic actors.
(3)
IranГўВҖВҷs Revolutionary Guard Corps benefits from limited economic transparency, as demonstrated by IranГўВҖВҷs continued failure to meet its intergovernmental Financial Action Task Force commitments.
(4)
IranГўВҖВҷs Revolutionary Guard Corps carries out IranГўВҖВҷs destabilizing political goals across the Middle East and by proxy worldwide.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress thatГўВҖВ”
(1)
persons who are owned or controlled by IranГўВҖВҷs Revolutionary Guard Corps should be subject to a 25-percent beneficial ownership threshold rather than majority ownership threshold with respect to blocking property or interests in property of such persons; and
(2)
such expanded sanctions would generate greater public scrutiny and enhanced due diligence procedures by the private sector and others.
3.
Regulations to expand sanctions against persons owned or controlled by IranГўВҖВҷs Revolutionary Guard
Corps
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe regulations to apply the definition of
own or control
described in subsection (b) for purposes of blocking property or interests in property pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.) of persons who are owned or controlled by IranГўВҖВҷs Revolutionary Guard Corps.
(b)
Definition of
own or control
The term
own or control
described in this subsection means, with respect to a personГўВҖВ”
(1)
to hold more than 25 percent of the equity interest by vote or value in the person;
(2)
to hold a majority of seats on the board of directors of the person; or
(3)
to otherwise control the actions, policies, or personnel decisions of the person.
(c)
Penalties
A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of subsection (a) or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out subsection (a) shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1705
) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
