1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Restoring Community Oversight of Sober Living Homes Act of 2018
.
2.
Zoning and licensing of recovery facilities
Section 807 of the Fair Housing Act (
42 U.S.C. 3607
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Nothing in this title or any other Federal law relating to protections for those with disabilities prohibits any State or local government from implementing laws, regulations, or ordinances that apply specifically to recovery facilities located in residentially zoned areas, including a law, regulation, or ordinance which prohibits recovery facilities in residentially zoned areas.
.
3.
Fair Housing Act definitions
Section 802 of the Fair Housing Act (
42 U.S.C. 3602
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b), by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, except that such term does not include any building, structure, or portion thereof that is located in a residentially zoned area and is used as a recovery facility
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(p)
Recovery facility
means a building, structure, or portion thereof that is occupied by a person who is handicapped due to drug addiction or alcoholism, and for which a condition of such occupancy of such building, structure, or portion thereof is that it remains free of controlled substances and alcohol.
.
4.
Requirements for recovery facilities as a condition for certain Federal funding
(a)
In general
A recovery facility in a residential zone may not receive direct or indirect payments or reimbursements or other remunerations from a Federal health care program unless—
(1)
the recovery facility is in compliance with State and local laws, regulations, or ordinances that apply within the zone where the recovery facility is located; and
(2)
the local government with jurisdiction over the zone in which the recovery facility is located certifies to the Secretary of Health and Human Services that the recovery facility is in compliance with State and local laws, regulations, or ordinances that apply within the zone where the recovery facility is located.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Federal health care program
The term
Federal health care program
has the meaning given such term in section 1128B(f) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a7b(f)).
(2)
Recovery facility
The term
recovery facility
has the meaning given such term in section 802 of the Fair Housing Act (
42 U.S.C. 3602
), as amended by section 3.
5.
Removing substance use disorder services as an essential health benefit
Section 1302(b)(1)(E) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
42 U.S.C. 18022(b)(1)(E)
) is amended by striking
and substance use disorder
.
6.
Effective date
This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
