1.
Purposes; definitions
(a)
Purposes
This Act is enacted to further carry out the Congressional intent of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 and the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Supreme Court decision in Olmstead v. L.C., 527 U.S. 581 (1999) to permit individuals with disabilities and their legal representatives to choose where to live from a full continuum of options—
(1)
by prohibiting class action lawsuits by federally funded entities unless the residents of ICFs/IID are given notice of the proposed action and an opportunity to opt out; and
(2)
by permitting such residents and their legal representatives to intervene in such lawsuits.
(b)
Definitions
In this Act, the terms
ICF/IID
and
ICFs/IID
refer, respectively, to an intermediate care facility for individuals with intellectual disabilities and intermediate care facilities for individuals with intellectual disabilities.
2.
Protecting the interests of each resident of an ICF/IID in class action lawsuits involving such
resident
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no entity that receives funds from the Federal Government may use such funds to file a class action lawsuit involving the residents of an ICF/IID unless the resident (or, if there is a legal representative of the resident, such legal representative), after receiving notice of the proposed class action lawsuit, has the opportunity to elect not to have the action apply to the resident.
(b)
Notices; resident right of withdrawal from lawsuit
(1)
Plaintiff notice of proposed lawsuit to facility
If an entity uses funds from the Federal Government to file a class action lawsuit involving the residents of an ICF/IID, the entity shall provide notice of the proposed lawsuit to the facility at least 90 days before the date of filing of the lawsuit.
(2)
Facility notice of proposed lawsuit to residents
Not later than 30 days after the date the facility receives such notice, the facility shall provide notice of the proposed class action lawsuit to each resident of such facility on behalf of which the lawsuit is proposed to be filed and, if there is a legal representative of such a resident, to such representative.
(3)
Resident right to withdraw from lawsuit
A resident (or, if there is a legal representative of such a resident, the legal representative) may elect not to be part of such a proposed lawsuit by filing a notice of such decision with the facility within 60 days of the date the facility notifies the resident or legal representative of the proposed class action lawsuit.
(c)
Legal representative defined
In this section of the Act, the term
legal representative
means, with respect to a resident of ICF/IID, an individual who has been appointed under State law to be a legal guardian, conservator, or other representative for the resident and who is authorized under law to make decisions on behalf of the resident with respect to care and treatment of the resident in the facility.
(d)
Effective date
This section shall apply to lawsuits filed after the date of the enactment of this Act.
3.
Protecting the interests of each resident of an ICF/IID in actions conducted by the Department of Justice that affect their choice of residency
(a)
Resident involvement in department actions involving residents of ICFs/IID
In any action taken by the Department of Justice, including investigations and other actions under the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Civil Rights for Institutionalized Persons Act, and any other Act, that involves the residents of an ICF/IID, the Department shall consult with the residents (or, if a resident has a legal representative, the resident’s legal representative) among all other interested parties before taking action.
(b)
Resident right of intervention in department actions involving residents of ICFs/IID
In any action under subsection (a), a resident (or, if a resident has a legal representative, the resident’s legal representative) shall have the right to intervene in the proceeding.
(c)
Effective date
This section shall apply to all actions taken by the Department of Justice after the date of the enactment of this Act.
4.
Preservation of States’ rights
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require a State (as defined for the purposes of title XIX of the Social Security Act) to include ICFs/IID services as an option under its Medicaid plan under such title.
