1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Perchlorate Reclamation and Water Replenishment Act
.
2.
Water projects for communities impacted by perchlorate contamination plumes
(a)
In general
The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act (
Public Law 102–575
, title XVI;
43 U.S.C. 390h
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
163__.
Perchlorate Water Replenishment Projects
(a)
In general
The Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Reclamation, is authorized to provide financial assistance to local water authorities for projects associated with perchlorate remediation efforts in eligible areas to—
(1)
design and construct water replenishment and reclamation projects that are owned and operated by the local water authority; or
(2)
to operate and maintain such projects.
(b)
Eligible Area
The term
eligible area
means an area that has been identified by the Bureau of Reclamation, the Army Corps of Engineers, or a State designating agency as having experienced an impact from perchlorate contamination.
(c)
Eligible project
The term
eligible project
means a project that enhances the resilience of domestic water supplies through one or more of the following:
(1)
Onsite and offsite treatment facilities.
(2)
Onsite and offsite reclamation facilities.
(3)
Recycled water facilities and associated distribution facilities.
(4)
Groundwater wells and associated distribution facilities.
(d)
Priority projects
The Secretary shall give priority to eligible projects that serve an eligible area—
(1)
that has received Federal authorization for projects associated with perchlorate contamination remediation programs under the Bureau of Reclamation or the Army Corps of Engineers;
(2)
for which a feasibility study for perchlorate remediation efforts that is acceptable to the Bureau of Reclamation or the Army Corps of Engineers has been completed; or
(3)
where the regional water agency that imports out-of-basin water supplies has a wholesale area that includes a population of not more than 350,000.
(e)
Cost-Sharing requirement
The Federal share of the cost of a project described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.
(f)
Compliance with applicable law
Activities undertaken for projects funded under this section shall comply with any applicable Federal and State laws.
(g)
Relationship to other activities
Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect other Federal and State authorities that are being used or may be used to facilitate the cleanup and protection of ground water basins. Activities undertaken for projects funded under this section shall be integrated with ongoing Federal and State projects to the extent practicable.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The table of sections in section 2 of
Public Law 102–575
is amended by inserting after the last item relating to title XVI the following:
163__. Perchlorate Water Replenishment Projects.
.
