1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Secret Service Recruitment and Retention Act of 2017
.
2.
Extension of overtime pay exception through 2018 for protective services
(a)
In general
The Overtime Pay for Protective Services Act of 2016 (
5 U.S.C. 5547
note) is amended—
(1)
in the section heading for section 2, by striking
2016
and inserting
2016 through 2018
; and
(2)
by striking
during 2016
each place it appears and inserting
during 2016 through 2018
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if enacted on December 31, 2016.
(c)
Report on extensions
Not later than January 30, 2018, and January 30, 2019, the Director of the Secret Service shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the effects of the amendment made by subsection (a)(2). The report shall include, with respect to the previous calendar year—
(1)
the total number of United States Secret Service personnel receiving premium pay above the premium pay limitation in subsection (a) of section 5547 of title 5, United States Code;
(2)
the total amount of premium pay for that calendar year paid to United States Secret Service personnel above the premium pay limitation in such subsection;
(3)
the mean and median amount of premium pay paid to United States Secret Service personnel above the premium pay limitation in such subsection;
(4)
the greatest amount paid to United States Secret Service personnel above the premium pay limitation in such subsection and the number of employees who received that amount;
(5)
notwithstanding the amendments made by subsection (a), the total number of United States Secret Service personnel who were not fully compensated for service because of the premium pay earnings limitation in section 118 of the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 2001 (
5 U.S.C. 5547
note);
(6)
the total amount of premium pay United States Secret Service personnel would have been paid but for the premium pay earnings limitation in such section; and
(7)
a list of United States Secret Service personnel who, within the calendar year, received premium pay above the premium pay limitation in subsection (a) of section 5547 of title 5, United States Code, and separated from the agency, including the type of separation in each case.
3.
Recruitment and retention efforts
(a)
Threat assessments
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Secret Service shall conduct updated threat assessments on all individuals protected by the United States Secret Service and provide such assessments to the appropriate congressional committees. Such threat assessments shall not be conducted for—
(A)
the President, the Vice President, or any spouses or children of the President or Vice President; or
(B)
former Presidents or Vice Presidents.
(2)
Requirement of threat assessments
The threat assessments required under paragraph (1) shall include a description of the costs, including total annual costs, of the protection of each individual.
(b)
Recruitment and retention
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Secret Service shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the recruitment and retention efforts of the Secret Service. Such report shall include—
(1)
data on the overall attrition rate for agency personnel;
(2)
information on the causes of employee attrition and issues of low morale;
(3)
a strategy for overhauling the agency’s recruitment and hiring process; and
(4)
a strategy for improving retention of agency personnel.
(c)
Extension of protection
Not later than 30 days after the Department of Homeland Security or the United States Secret Service is directed by the President or the Secretary of Homeland Security to extend the protection of an individual beyond the length of time that would otherwise be provided to such individual, and such protection is provided by the United States Secret Service, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Secret Service, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a notice of such extension, including an updated threat assessment on such individual.
(d)
Polygraph test questions
Not later than 10 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Secret Service shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of all questions asked in calendar year 2016 on any polygraph exam the United States Secret Service issued to an applicant for employment in the United States Secret Service.
(e)
Definitions
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
