1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Assessing Critical Care Efforts to Strengthen Services (ACCESS) Act of 2017
.
2.
CMMI Medicaid payment model demonstration project on Medicaid reimbursement for physicians’ services in counties with a disproportionately high proportion of Medicaid enrollees
Section 1115A(b) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315a(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)(B), by adding at the end the following new clause:
(xxv)
Focusing on payment models under title XIX for recruiting and retaining physicians to serve low-income applicable individuals residing in disproportionate share counties (as defined in paragraph (5)(D)).
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Medicaid physicians’ service model for low-income individuals in disproportionate share counties
(A)
Selection
Beginning not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall select for testing one or more models described in paragraph (2)(B)(xxv).
(B)
Design
In selecting, and designing the testing for, such a model under this subsection, CMI shall—
(i)
review the most successful models for recruiting and retaining physicians to serve low-income applicable individuals residing in a disproportionate share county (as defined in subparagraph (D)); and
(ii)
incorporate lessons from successful strategies that take into account how access to physicians’ services has improved for such individuals.
(C)
Evaluation
In evaluating the performance of such a model under paragraph (4), CMI shall—
(i)
evaluate the applicability and expansion of the model to inform national strategies to best leverage funds under title XIX to improve access to physicians’ services for low-income applicable individuals residing in a disproportionate share county; and
(ii)
examine the degree to which Medicaid payment strategies (such as the use of primary case management, medical homes, and palliative care, the use of payment rates for physicians’ services that are not less than the Medicare payment rates that apply to such care and services under part B of title XVIII, and allowing Federally-qualified health centers to contract with specialty physicians to be paid at Federally-qualified health center payment rates for services furnished in a physician’s office), including such strategies as modified through such a model, improve access, outcomes, and patient satisfaction for such individuals and reduce emergency department utilization by such individuals.
(D)
Disproportionate share county defined
In this paragraph, the term
disproportionate share county
means a county in which at least 35 percent of the residents of the county are enrolled under the State plan under title XIX (or under a waiver of such plan).
.
