1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Building an Environment for Helpful, Effective, and Accessible Representation and Decision-making Act
or the
BE HEARD Act
.
2.
Training for Special VictimsГўВҖВҷ Counsels on effect of gender differences on victim response to sexual
assault
In establishing the training requirements for Special VictimsГўВҖВҷ Counsels pursuant to section 1044e(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall develop specific training to assist Special VictimsГўВҖВҷ Counsels in recognizing and dealing with the effect of gender differences on feelings of victimization and response mechanisms of victims of sexual assault.
3.
Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces jurisdiction to review interlocutory appeals of decisions on
certain petitions for writs of mandamus
Section 806b(e) of title 10, United States Code (article 6b(e) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amendedГўВҖВ”
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
paragraph (4)
and inserting
paragraph (5)
;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph (4):
(4)
The Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces may review for legal error a grant or denial of a petition for a writ of mandamus described in this subsection by the Court of Criminal Appeals, upon petition of a victim of an offense under this chapter or of the accused, and on good cause shown. Any such review shall have priority of consideration to the maximum extent practicable.
.
4.
Designation of individuals to assume victim rights under Uniform Code of Military Justice
(a)
Clarification of designation authority
Section 806b(c) of title 10, United States Code (article 6b(c) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by inserting after the first sentence the following:
(2)
The designation authority provided by this subsection is discretionary, and designation of an individual to assume the rights under this section of a victim who is under 18 years of age is not required if the military judge determines that the victim can adequately represent the victimГўВҖВҷs own interests.
(3)
Until the military judge is detailed, the convening authority may exercise the designation authority provided by this subsection.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
Section 806b(c) of title 10, United States Code (article 6b(c) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is further amendedГўВҖВ”
(1)
by inserting
(1)
before
In the case
; and
(2)
by striking
However, in no event may the individual so designated
and inserting the following:
(4)
In no event may the individual designated under this subsection
.
