1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Furthering Access to Stroke Telemedicine Act
of 2017
or the
FAST Act
of 2017
.
2.
Expanding access to telehealth-eligible stroke services under the Medicare program
(a)
In general
Section 1834(m)(4) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395m(m)(4)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (C)—
(A)
in clause (i), by striking
The term
and inserting
Subject to clause (iii), the term
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
Telehealth-eligible stroke services
With respect to telehealth-eligible stroke services, the term
originating site
means any hospital, or any mobile unit equipped with the ability to evaluate possible stroke patients while being transported to a hospital, at which the eligible telehealth individual is located at the time the service is furnished via a telecommunications system, regardless of where the hospital or mobile unit is located.
;
(2)
in subparagraph (F)(i) by inserting
telehealth-eligible stroke services,
after
Secretary)),
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(G)
Telehealth-eligible stroke services
The term
telehealth-eligible stroke services
means services that are—
(i)
related to the diagnosis, evaluation, or treatment of symptoms in an individual of an acute stroke; and
(ii)
provided to such individual not later than four and a half hours (or such other clinically appropriate amount of time as is determined by the Secretary) after the onset of such symptoms with respect to such individual.
.
(b)
No originating site facility fee for new sites
Section 1834(m)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395m(m)(2)(B)
) is amended, in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting
(other than an originating site that is only described in clause (iii) of paragraph (4)(C), and does not meet the requirement for an originating site under clause (i) of such paragraph)
after
the originating site
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to services furnished on or after the date that is 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
