1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Lieutenant Osvaldo Albarati Correctional Officer Self-Protection Act of 2017
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004 (
Public Law 108–277
; 118 Stat. 865) gives certain law enforcement officers, including certain correctional officers of the Bureau of Prisons, the right to carry a concealed firearm in all 50 States for self-protection;
(2)
the purpose of that Act is to allow certain law enforcement officers to protect themselves while off duty;
(3)
correctional officers of the Bureau of Prisons have been the targets of assaults and murders while off duty; and
(4)
while that Act allows certain law enforcement officers to protect themselves off duty, the Director of the Bureau of Prisons allows correctional officers of the Bureau of Prisons to securely store personal firearms at only 31 Federal penal and correctional institutions while at work.
3.
Secure firearms storage
(a)
In general
Chapter 303
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
4050.
Secure firearms storage
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
employee
means a qualified law enforcement officer employed by the Bureau of Prisons; and
(2)
the terms
firearm
and
qualified law enforcement officer
have the meanings given those terms under section 926B.
(b)
Secure firearms storage
The Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall ensure that each chief executive officer of a Federal penal or correctional institution—
(1)
(A)
provides a secure storage area located outside of the secure perimeter of the institution for employees to store firearms; or
(B)
allows employees to store firearms in a vehicle lockbox approved by the Director of the Bureau of Prisons; and
(2)
notwithstanding any other provision of law (including regulations), allows employees to carry concealed firearms on the premises outside of the secure perimeter of the institution.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 303
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
4050. Secure firearms storage.
.
