1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Flood Protection Act
.
2.
Frequent and chronic coastal flooding mitigation and adaptation infrastructure projects
The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (
16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.) is amended by redesignating sections 318 and 319 as sections 320 and 321, and by inserting after section 317 the following:
318.
Frequent and chronic coastal flooding mitigation and adaptation infrastructure projects
(a)
In general
The Secretary may make grants to State and local governments for federally recognized Indian Tribes for frequent and chronic coastal flooding mitigation and adaptation infrastructure projects.
(b)
Authorized uses
Amounts provided as a grant under this section may be used for any of the following:
(1)
Adaptation of existing infrastructure, including enhancements to both built and natural environments.
(2)
Maintenance and updating of existing frequent and chronic coastal flood risk reduction infrastructure, such as gravity drainage structures, road elevation, bulkheads, gates, and floodwalls.
(3)
Increasing waterfront resilience to frequent and chronic coastal flooding, including creation of bulkheads, dune enhancement, beach renourishment, and levees.
(4)
Improvements to diversion, removal, and storage infrastructure to reduce risks caused by frequent and chronic coastal flooding.
(5)
Innovative methods to reduce risks caused by chronic flooding along street infrastructure systems, including canal streets, absorbent streets, floodable parks, and underground cisterns.
(c)
Limitation on project eligibility
A project shall not be eligible for funding under this section if it will have any long-term negative impact on important ecological functions and habitat or existing natural coastal protection features and functions.
(d)
Priority
In making grants under this section the Secretary shall give priority to the following:
(1)
Protecting areas the elevation of which is not greater than 10 feet above mean low tide.
(2)
Protecting critical infrastructure, as that term is defined in Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7 as issued December 17, 2003.
(e)
Joint application
Two or more contiguous local governments or Tribes may jointly apply for, and receive, a grant under this section.
(f)
Cost sharing
(1)
Limitation on Federal share
The Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out with a grant under this section shall not exceed 90 percent of the cost of such activity.
(2)
Non-Federal share
The Secretary shall apply to the non-Federal share of an activity carried out with a grant under this section the amount of funds, and the fair market value of property and services, provided by non-Federal sources and used for the activity.
(g)
Reports
Each recipient of a grant under this section shall report annually to the Secretary on progress made on the project carried out with the grant.
(h)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $3,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2024.
.
