1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 2017
.
2.
Enhanced Department of Homeland Security coordination through the Blue Campaign
(a)
In general
Subtitle C of title IV of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 231
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
434.
Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign
(a)
In general
As part of the Blue Campaign, the Secretary shall—
(1)
issue Department-wide guidance to appropriate personnel of the Department; and
(2)
develop training programs for such personnel.
(b)
Guidance and training
The Blue Campaign shall provide guidance and training to appropriate personnel of the Department regarding the following:
(1)
Types of information that should be collected and recorded in information technology systems utilized by the Department to help identify individuals suspected or convicted of human trafficking.
(2)
Systematic and routine information sharing regarding individuals suspected or convicted of human trafficking within and among the components of the Department.
(3)
Techniques to identify suspected victims of trafficking along the border of the United States.
(4)
Techniques specifically for Transportation Security Administration personnel to—
(A)
identify suspected victims of trafficking at airport security; and
(B)
serve as a liaison and resource to aviation workers and the traveling public.
(5)
Utilizing resources to educate partners and stakeholders and increase public awareness of human trafficking, such as indicator cards, fact sheets, pamphlets, posters, brochures, and radio and television campaigns.
(6)
Any other activities determined necessary by the Secretary as part of the Blue Campaign.
(c)
Definition
In this section, the term
human trafficking
means an act or practice described in paragraph (9) or (10) of section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7102
).
.
(b)
Information technology systems
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that, consistent with the Department of Homeland Security-wide guidance required under subsection (a) of section 434 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as added by subsection (a) of this section), information technology systems utilized within the Department to record and track information regarding individuals suspected or convicted of human trafficking (as such term is defined in such section 434) are integrated with each other.
(c)
Oversight
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate on the status and effectiveness of the Blue Campaign.
(d)
Authorization
There is authorized to be appropriated $819,000 to carry out section 434 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by subsection (a) of this section.
(e)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 433 the following new item:
Sec. 434. Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign.
.
