1.
Improved access to motor vehicle information
(a)
Amendment
Subchapter II of
chapter 301
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 30117
the following new section:
30117A.
Motor vehicle information made available to owners and potential purchasers
(a)
Motor vehicle information
The Secretary of Transportation may require that each manufacturer of a motor vehicle provide the following information, with regard to a specific vehicle identification number:
(1)
Each original equipment manufacturer (OEM) part name included within such vehicle, a description of each such part, each part number (including any superceded and successor OEM part number), any other part identification number (such as a serial number) and distinguishing marking of each such part, and the software of each such part (if applicable).
(2)
Build sheet information.
(3)
Additional information as determined by the Secretary.
(b)
Information made available to owners and potential purchasers
(1)
Website access
Each manufacturer of a motor vehicle shall provide access to the information described under subsection (a), in a standardized format, through a website to the owner of the motor vehicle and any potential purchaser of the motor vehicle (and to any designated agent of any such owner or potential purchaser). The website shall also be searchable electronically with batch access to the information described under subsection (a), in a standardized format.
(2)
Compliance
The Secretary shall determine and ensure compliance with this paragraph.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of chapters for
chapter 301
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 30117
the following new item:
30117A. Motor vehicle information made available to purchaser.
.
(c)
Applicability
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect with regard to any motor vehicle sold on or after November 1, 2000.
(d)
Effective date
This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall take effect 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
