1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Overdose Prevention and Patient Safety Act
.
2.
Confidentiality of records
Section 543 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290dd–2
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
The content
and inserting
Subject to paragraph (3), the content
;
(B)
in paragraph (2), by striking
Whether
and inserting
Subject to paragraph (3), whether
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Exception
(A)
In general
In the case of a use or disclosure of the content of a record referred to in subsection (a) for purposes of treatment, payment, or health care operations, paragraphs (1) and (2), as applicable, and regulations issued under subsection (g), including any such regulations pertaining to redisclosure limitations, shall not apply, and the provisions of section 164.506 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation, shall apply with respect to such use or disclosure of such content by an entity in the same manner and to the same extent as such provisions apply with respect to the use or disclosure of protected health information by a covered entity.
(B)
Definitions
For purposes of this paragraph, the terms
treatment
,
payment
,
health care operations
, and
protected health information
have the meaning given such terms in section 164.501 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation, and the term
covered entity
has the meaning given such term in section 160.103 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
; and
(2)
by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
(c)
Use of records in criminal proceedings
(1)
In general
Except as authorized by a court order granted under subsection (b)(2)(C), no record referred to in subsection (a) may be used to initiate or substantiate any criminal charges against a patient or to conduct any investigation of a patient.
(2)
Additional protections
In the case of a use or disclosure of a record referred to in subsection (a) for purposes of treatment, payment, or health care operations as provided for under subsection (b), no further disclosure or redisclosure of such record is allowed to initiate or substantiate any criminal charges against a patient or to conduct any investigation of a patient except as authorized by a court order granted under subsection (b)(2)(C) of this section.
(3)
Exclusionary effect and dismissal
Any record referred to in subsection (a) that has been used or disclosed to initiate or substantiate any criminal charges against a patient or to conduct any investigation of a patient in violation of paragraph (1) or (2), shall be excluded from evidence in any proposed or actual proceedings relating to such criminal charges or investigation and absent good cause shown shall result in the automatic dismissal of any proceedings for which the content of the record was offered.
.
