1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting Access to Justice through Unclaimed Deposits Act of 2018
.
2.
Requirement for deposits of unclaimed funds
(a)
Interest and dividends generated on unclaimed funds
Each financial institution shall—
(1)
deposit the principal amount of any unclaimed deposits the financial institution receives or holds into an interest or dividend-bearing account; and
(2)
transfer any interest or dividend generated on such amount to a fund or account of the State—
(A)
in which such financial institution is located; and
(B)
into which such State deposits revenues from interest on lawyers trust accounts.
(b)
Interest and dividend Rate
Each financial institution shall ensure that deposits into each account described in subsection (a)(1) earn the highest interest rate or dividend generally available to other customers of such institution if such account meets the same minimum balance or other minimum qualification for such interest rate or dividend.
(c)
Regulations required
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration shall promulgate such rules as may be necessary to carry out this Act.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Financial institution
The term
financial institution
means—
(A)
a bank, as defined in section 3(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (
12 U.S.C. 1813(a)
); or
(B)
a credit union, as defined in section 101(1) of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1752(1)
).
(2)
Interest on lawyers trust account
The term
interest on lawyers trust account
has the meaning given the term in section 207(k)(5)(c) of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1787(k)(5)(C)
).
(3)
State
The term
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any territory or possession of the United States.
(4)
Unclaimed deposit
The term
unclaimed deposit
means a deposit in the possession of a financial institution in a deposit account which has become inactive or abandoned pursuant to State law or regulation.
