1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
STOP Straw Purchases Act
.
2.
Increase in penalties for straw purchasers of firearms
Section 924(a)(2) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
, except that in the case of a violation of section 922(a)(6) involving deception as to the identity of the actual transferee of a firearm, the violator shall be fined not more than $750,000, imprisoned not more than 25 years, or both
before the period.
3.
Prohibition on continuing criminal enterprise involving straw purchases of firearms; prohibition on
obtaining firearm by inducing straw purchase
(a)
Prohibitions
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(aa)
It shall be unlawful for any person, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, to—
(1)
induce, or act in concert with, another person to engage in a continuing series of violations of subsection (a)(6) involving deception as to the identity of the actual transferee of a firearm, from which such person obtains substantial income or resources; and
(2)
with respect to such other person, occupy a position of organizer, a supervisory position, or any other position of management.
(bb)
It shall be unlawful for any person, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, to obtain a firearm by inducing another person to violate subsection (a)(6) by falsely claiming to be the actual transferee of the firearm.
.
(b)
Penalties
Section 924(a) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Whoever knowingly violates section 922(aa) shall be fined not more than $1,000,000, imprisoned not more than 30 years, or both.
(9)
Whoever knowingly violates section 922(bb) shall be fined not more than $750,000, imprisoned not more than 25 years, or both.
.
4.
Inclusion in firearms transaction record form of outline of penalties for the straw purchase of a
firearm
The Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives shall ensure that the Firearms Transaction Record form used by the Bureau includes a statement outlining the penalties for acting as the straw purchaser of a firearm. For purposes of this section, a person acts as the straw purchaser of a firearm if the person violates section 922(a)(6) of title 18, United States Code, through deception as to the identity of the actual transferee of the firearm.
