1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Foreign Spill Protection Act of 2017
.
2.
Liability of owners and operators of foreign facilities
(a)
Oil Pollution Act of 1990 amendments
(1)
Definitions
Section 1001 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (
33 U.S.C. 2701
) is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (26)(A)—
(i)
in clause (ii), by striking
onshore or offshore facility, any person
and inserting
onshore facility, offshore facility, or foreign offshore unit or other facility located seaward of the exclusive economic zone, including a facility located in, on, or under any land within a foreign country, any person
; and
(ii)
in clause (iii), by striking
offshore facility, the person who
and inserting
offshore facility or foreign offshore unit or other facility located seaward of the exclusive economic zone, including a facility located in, on, or under any land within a foreign country, the person or entity that
;
(B)
in paragraph (27), by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following:
, including any foreign individual and any foreign public or private entity
; and
(C)
in paragraph (32)—
(i)
by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (F) as subparagraphs (E) through (G), respectively;
(ii)
by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
(D)
Foreign facilities
In the case of a foreign offshore unit or other facility located seaward of the exclusive economic zone, including a facility located in, on, or under any land within a foreign country, any person owning or operating the facility, and any leaseholder, permit holder, assignee, or holder of a right of use and easement granted under applicable foreign law for the area in which the facility is located.
; and
(iii)
in subparagraph (G) (as so redesignated), by striking
or offshore facility, the persons
and inserting
offshore facility, or foreign offshore unit or other facility located seaward of the exclusive economic zone, including a facility located in, on, or under any land within a foreign country, the persons or entities
.
(2)
Actions on behalf of fund
Section 1015(c) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (
33 U.S.C. 2715(c)
) is amended, in the third sentence, by adding before the period at the end the following:
, or any other facility located seaward of the exclusive economic zone, including a facility located in, on, or under any land within a foreign country
.
(b)
Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendment
Section 311(a)(6) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1321(a)(6)
) is amended by striking
(B)
and all that follows through
and (C)
and inserting the following
(B) in the case of a facility, any person owning or operating the facility, and (C)
.
