1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Charlotte’s Web Medical Access Act of 2017
.
2.
Exclusion of cannabidiol and cannabidiol-rich plants from definition of marihuana
(a)
In general
Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802
) is amended in paragraph (16)—
(1)
by striking
(16) The
and inserting
(16)(A) The
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(B)
Cannabidiol and cannabidiol-rich plants—
(i)
are excluded from the definition of marihuana under subparagraph (A); and
(ii)
shall not be treated as controlled substances under this Act.
.
(b)
Definitions
Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802
), as amended, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
(57)
The term
cannabidiol-rich plant
means the plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of such plant, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis.
(58)
The term
cannabidiol
means the substance cannabidiol, as derived from a cannabidiol-rich plant.
.
3.
Other limitations
(a)
Non-Applicability of Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 301
et seq.) shall not apply to cannabidiol or cannabidiol-rich plants as those terms are defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802
) as amended by this Act.
(b)
State law
Nothing in this Act shall prohibit or otherwise restrict any activities related to the use, production, or distribution of marijuana in a State in which such activities are legal under State law.
4.
Sense of Congress with respect to suspicious activity reports
It is the sense of the Congress that, after the date of the enactment of this Act, a transaction should not be treated as a suspicious transaction for purposes of section 5318(g) of title 31, United States Code, solely because such transaction involved cannabidiol or a cannabidiol-rich plant.
5.
Sunset provision
The provisions of this Act, and the provisions inserted into the Controlled Substances Act by this Act, shall cease to apply on the date that is 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
