1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting Families in Substance Abuse Treatment Act
.
2.
Foster care maintenance payments for children with parents in a licensed residential family-based treatment facility for substance abuse
(a)
In general
Section 472 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 672
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(2)(C), by striking
or
and inserting
, with a parent residing in a licensed residential family-based treatment facility, but only to the extent permitted under subsection (j), or in a
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(j)
Children placed with a parent residing in a licensed residential family-Based treatment facility for substance abuse
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this section, a child who is eligible for foster care maintenance payments under this section, or who would be eligible for the payments if the eligibility were determined without regard to paragraphs (1)(B) and (3) of subsection (a), shall be eligible for the payments for a period of not more than 12 months during which the child is placed with a parent who is in a licensed residential family-based treatment facility for substance abuse, but only if—
(A)
the recommendation for the placement is specified in the child's case plan before the placement;
(B)
the treatment facility provides, as part of the treatment for substance abuse, parenting skills training, parent education, and individual and family counseling; and
(C)
the substance abuse treatment, parenting skills training, parent education, and individual and family counseling is provided under an organizational structure and treatment framework that involves understanding, recognizing, and responding to the effects of all types of trauma and in accordance with recognized principles of a trauma-informed approach and trauma-specific interventions to address the consequences of trauma and facilitate healing.
(2)
Application
With respect to children for whom foster care maintenance payments are made under paragraph (1), only the children who satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (1)(B) and (3) of subsection (a) shall be considered to be children with respect to whom foster care maintenance payments are made under this section for purposes of subsection (h) or section 473(b)(3)(B).
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 474(a)(1) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 674(a)(1)
) is amended by inserting
subject to section 472(j),
before
an amount equal to the Federal
the first place it appears.
3.
Effective date
(a)
Effective dates
Subject to subsection (b), the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on October 1, 2017.
(b)
Transition rule
(1)
In general
In the case of a State plan under part E of title IV of the Social Security Act which the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines requires State legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) in order for the plan to meet the additional requirements imposed by the amendments made by this Act, the State plan shall not be regarded as failing to comply with the requirements of such part solely on the basis of the failure of the plan to meet such additional requirements before the first day of the first calendar quarter beginning after the close of the first regular session of the State legislature that begins after the date of enactment of this Act. For purposes of the previous sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year legislative session, each year of the session shall be deemed to be a separate regular session of the State legislature.
(2)
Application to programs operated by Indian tribal organizations
In the case of an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or tribal consortium which the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines requires time to take action necessary to comply with the additional requirements imposed by the amendments made by this Act (whether the tribe, organization, or tribal consortium has a plan under section 479B of the Social Security Act or a cooperative agreement or contract entered into with a State), the Secretary shall provide the tribe, organization, or tribal consortium with such additional time as the Secretary determines is necessary for the tribe, organization, or tribal consortium to take the action to comply with the additional requirements before being regarded as failing to comply with the requirements.
