1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Guaranteed COLA Act
.
2.
Certain building sales
(a)
Establishment of program
The Administrator of General Services shall establish a program under which the Administrator shall sell all Federal buildings that are not utilized by the Federal Government.
(b)
Identification of buildings
(1)
Initial identification
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall make an initial identification of all buildings owned and not utilized by the Federal Government.
(2)
Regular identification
After the date on which the Administrator makes the initial identification under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall identify on a continuing basis any building owned and not utilized by the Federal Government that was not included in such initial identification.
(c)
Sale required
Not later than 5 years after a building is identified under subsection (b), the Administrator, notwithstanding any other provision of law and to the extent practicable, shall complete a sale of—
(1)
such building; and
(2)
the land relevant to such building.
(d)
Limitation
The Administrator shall not sell a building identified under subsection (b) if the building, or the land relevant to such building, has been set aside for preservation or historic purposes.
(e)
Revenues from sale
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the revenue from a sale under subsection (c), after payment of any costs related to the sale, shall be made available only for the following:
(1)
To increase benefits under title II of the Social Security Act, effective with the month of December 2017, by applying section 215(i) of such Act as if the applicable increase percentage with respect to the base quarter in 2017 (as determined under such section without regard to this paragraph) is increased by an additional 1.5 percentage points.
(2)
Effective December 1, 2017, to make the cost-of-living adjustment to the retired pay of members and former members of the Armed Forces pursuant to section 1401a of title 10, United States Code, as if the applicable percentage of the increase calculated under subsection (b)(2) of such section (without regard to this paragraph) is increased by an additional 1.5 percentage points.
