1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Taxpayer Confidentiality Through Safeguards Act
.
2.
Compliance by contractors with confidentiality safeguards
(a)
In General
Section 6103(p)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(9)
Disclosure to contractors and other agents
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no return or return information shall be disclosed to any contractor or other agent of a Federal, State, or local agency unless such agency, to the satisfaction of the Secretary—
(A)
has requirements in effect which require each such contractor or other agent which would have access to returns or return information to provide safeguards (within the meaning of paragraph (4)) to protect the confidentiality of such returns or return information,
(B)
agrees to conduct an on-site review every 3 years (or a mid-point review in the case of contracts or agreements of less than 3 years in duration) of each contractor or other agent to determine compliance with such requirements,
(C)
submits the findings of the most recent review conducted under subparagraph (B) to the Secretary as part of the report required by paragraph (4)(E), and
(D)
certifies to the Secretary for the most recent annual period that such contractor or other agent is in compliance with all such requirements.
The certification required by subparagraph (D) shall include the name and address of each
contractor and other agent, a description of the contract or agreement
with such contractor or other agent, and the duration of such contract or
agreement. The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply to
disclosures pursuant to subsection (n) for purposes of Federal tax
administration.
.
(b)
Conforming Amendment
Section 6103(p)(8)(B) of such Code is amended by inserting
or paragraph (9)
after
subparagraph (A)
.
(c)
Effective Date
(1)
In general
The amendments made by this section shall apply to disclosures made after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Certifications
The first certification under
section 6103(p)(9)(D)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by subsection (a), shall be made with respect to the portion of calendar year 2018 following the date of the enactment of this Act.
