1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Helpful Incentives to Restore the Economic Dream Act of 2017
or the
HIRED Act of 2017
.
2.
Credit for first-year wages of apprentices
(a)
In general
Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
45S.
First-year wages of apprentices
(a)
In general
For purposes of section 38, the apprentice credit determined under this section for the taxable year is an amount equal to 40 percent of the qualified first-year wages for such year.
(b)
Qualified first-Year wages
For purposes of this section—
(1)
First-year wages
The term
qualified first-year wages
means wages paid or incurred by the taxpayer for services rendered by an employee as part of an apprenticeship programs registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the
National Apprenticeship Act
), during the 1-year period beginning with the day the individual first renders such services for such employer.
(2)
Limitation on wages per year taken into account
The amount of the qualified first-year wages which may be taken into account with respect to any individual shall not exceed $6,000 per year.
(3)
Wages
The term
wages
has the meaning given such term under section 51(c) applied without regard to paragraph (4) thereof.
(c)
Application of certain rules
Rules similar to the rules of subsections (f), (g), (i), (j), and (k) of section 51, and section 52, shall apply for the purposes of this section.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Section 38(b) of such Code is amended by striking
plus
at the end of paragraph (35), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (36), and inserting
, plus
, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(37)
the apprentice credit determined under section 45S.
.
(2)
The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
Sec. 45S. First-year wages of apprentices.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
