118 HCON 80 IH: Recognizing that Federal law does not prohibit elementary school or secondary school students from discussing or sharing information about non-dairy milk alternatives.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-11-29
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 80
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 29, 2023
Ms. Brownley
(for herself,
Mr. Carter of Louisiana
, and
Ms. VelГЎzquez
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Recognizing that Federal law does not prohibit elementary school or secondary school students from discussing or sharing information about non-dairy milk alternatives.
Whereas all children deserve healthy, nutritious meals;
Whereas school meals play an essential role in meeting the nutritional needs of children;
Whereas some families choose plant-based milk to meet the nutritional needs of children with milk allergies;
Whereas cowГўВҖВҷs milk allergy is one of the most common food allergies reported in infants and young children;
Whereas plant-based milks are popular for health, ethical, and environmental reasons, and some individuals prefer the taste of plant-based milk over cowГўВҖВҷs milk;
Whereas some nutritional aspects of many plant-based milks are similar to cowГўВҖВҷs milk, such as sodium and potassium content;
Whereas the American Society of Nutrition has found that most plant-based milks are a healthier choice when it comes to fat and calories as compared to whole-fat cowГўВҖВҷs milk;
Whereas the First Amendment protects the rights of individuals to discuss food and beverage preferences and nutritional information with their peers, teachers, and school officials; and
Whereas current Department of Agriculture guidelines suggest that cowГўВҖВҷs milk is the best for all students, but this is clearly not the case for many children: Now, therefore, be it
ThatГўВҖВ”
(1)
it is the sense of Congress that nothing in the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (
42 U.S.C. 1750 et seq.
) prohibits elementary school or secondary school students from discussing or sharing information about non-dairy milk alternatives with their classmates on the campus of such school;
(2)
parents and students should be provided with as much information as possible about school meal nutrition; and
(3)
parents and students, in consultation with their physicians, should be able to have as much choice as possible in the school lunch program, so that the individual dietary needs of children can be better achieved.
