118 HCON 112 IH: Congressional Bipartisan Seating Resolution
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-06-11
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. CON. RES. 112
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 11, 2024
Ms. Porter
submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Requiring Members of Congress and Senators to be seated next to Members or Senators of opposing parties during meetings or hearings of committees of Congress.
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Congressional Bipartisan Seating Resolution
.
2.
Requiring Members attending House committee meetings and hearings to be seated next to Members of opposing parties
(a)
Requirement
To the greatest extent practicable, a Member of the House of Representatives who is a member of a committee of the House of Representatives shall be seated next to a Member of the opposing party when the Member attends a meeting or hearing of the committee.
(b)
Regulations
The Committee on Rules of the House of Representatives shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
3.
Requiring Senators attending Senate committee meetings and hearings to be seated next to Senators of opposing parties
(a)
Requirement
To the greatest extent practicable, a Senator who is a member of a committee of the Senate shall be seated next to a Senator of the opposing party when the Senator attends a meeting or hearing of the committee.
(b)
Regulations
The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
4.
Requiring Members and Senators attending joint committee hearings to be seated next to Members or Senators of opposing parties
(a)
Requirement
To the greatest extent practicable, a Member of the House of Representatives who is a member of a joint committee of the Congress shall be seated next to a Member of the opposing party when the Member attends a meeting or hearing of the committee, and Senator who is a member of a joint committee of the Congress shall be seated next to a Senator of the opposing party when the Senator attends a meeting or hearing of the committee.
(b)
Regulations
The Committee on Rules of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate shall promulgate jointly such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
