1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cooperation on Combatting Human Smuggling and Trafficking Act
.
2.
DHS partnerships to combat human smuggling and trafficking
(a)
In General
The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with appropriate Federal partners, shall enhance border security by seeking to expand partnerships with appropriate law enforcement entities in Mexico and Central American and South American countries to combat human smuggling and trafficking operations in Mexico and such countries, including through the following:
(1)
The establishment or expansion of cross-border transnational criminal investigative units to identify, disrupt, and support the prosecution of human smuggling and trafficking operations.
(2)
Enhanced participation in the Bilateral Human Trafficking Enforcement Initiative or successor initiative.
(3)
Advanced training for certain investigators and prosecutors from Mexico and such countries.
(b)
Investigation and Prosecution of Human Smuggling and Trafficking
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall seek to expand collaborative programs involving Homeland Security Investigations that are aimed at supporting the investigation and prosecution of human smugglers and traffickers targeting children and families that pose border security threats and operate at the southern land border of the United States, including the continuation and expansion of anti-trafficking coordination teams.
(c)
Information Campaign to Deter Migration
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall carry out targeted public information campaigns to inform targeted migrant populations within Mexico, Central America, South America, and certain other countries with high migration rates regarding the dangers of travel across Mexico to the United States. Such campaigns shall combat misinformation and disinformation by transnational criminal organizations and other nefarious actors regarding United States laws or policies.
(2)
Specifications
The information campaigns implemented pursuant to paragraph (1) shall, to the greatest extent possible—
(A)
be targeted at populations and localities with high migration rates;
(B)
employ a variety of communications media; and
(C)
be developed in consultation with appropriate program officials of the Department of State and, as appropriate, Mexican, Central American, South American, and other appropriate foreign governments, nonprofit or academic entities, and representatives acting on behalf of targeted migrant populations, including repatriated migrants.
