1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Aldyl A Hazard Reduction and Community Safety Act
.
2.
Identification and removal of Aldyl A Polyethylene piping
(a)
Verification of aldyl A polyethylene piping
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall require each owner or operator of a gas pipeline facility in class 3 and class 4 locations and class 1 and class 2 high consequence areas to conduct an assessment of pipeline facility records to determine the presence of Aldyl A polyethylene piping in active or inactive service.
(b)
Reporting
(1)
Documentation of certain pipelines
Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall require each owner or operator of a pipeline facility described in subsection (a) to submit to the Secretary documentation of the total pipeline mileage and number of components identified by the owner or operator as Aldyl A polyethylene piping.
(2)
Insufficient documentation
The Secretary shall prescribe the methodology by which each owner or operator of a pipeline facility described in subsection (a) shall mitigate insufficient records necessary to identify each pipeline segment containing Aldyl A polyethylene piping. Such mitigation shall be completed not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Removal of aldyl A polyethylene piping
(1)
In general
Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue standards for the removal of Aldyl A polyethylene piping at all pressurized locations in gas pipeline facilities located in class 3 and class 4 locations and class 1 and class 2 high consequence areas.
(2)
Timing
In issuing standards under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall require the removal of Aldyl A polyethylene piping at all pressurized locations identified in paragraph (1) not later than 5 years following the date of enactment of this Act.
(3)
Considerations
In developing the standards under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall coordinate with State regulators, as appropriate, to establish timeframes for the completion of the requirement in paragraph (1) that take into account potential consequences to public safety and the environment and that minimize costs and service disruptions.
(d)
High-Consequence area defined
In this section, the term
high consequence area
means an area described in section 60109(a) of title 49, United States Code.
