1.
Study and report on grace periods under Transition Assistance Program of the Department of Defense
(a)
Study
The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, in coordination with the heads of other Federal agencies the Under Secretary determines appropriate, shall conduct a comprehensive study on reforms to grace periods under TAP. Such study shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of the impact of unit tasking on the ability of a covered member to transition to civilian life.
(2)
A review, disaggregated by military department, of current practices regarding unit tasking during TAP.
(3)
An analysis of each challenge a covered member faces when balancing duty assignments with the requirements to participate in TAP.
(4)
An assessment of such grace periods that allow for unplanned periods of leave, temporary duty, deployments, or other periods when a covered member is unavailable to participate in TAP.
(b)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report that includes the following:
(1)
The findings and conclusions of the Under Secretary based on the study under subsection (a).
(2)
The recommendations of the Under Secretary whether to reform such grace periods.
(3)
The recommendation of the Under Secretary whether a member of an Armed Force, while a covered member, may receive orders only from the command post or headquarters of the unit to which such member is assigned.
(4)
A comprehensive plan, including proposed timelines, milestones, and resources the Under Secretary determines necessary, to implement such recommendations.
(5)
Any other information or recommendation the Under Secretary determines—
(A)
appropriate;
(B)
would improve TAP; or
(C)
would facilitate a successful transition to civilian life for a covered member.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered member
means a member of the Armed Forces participating in TAP.
(2)
The term
TAP
means the Transition Assistance Program of the Department of Defense under sections 1142 and 1144, of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
The term
unit tasking
means a defined and measurable activity assigned to a unit of an Armed Force by the command post or headquarters of such unit.
