1.
Conveyance
(a)
In general
The Secretary is authorized to convey to the Port of Skamania County, Washington, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the real property described in subsection (b).
(b)
Property
The property to be conveyed under this section is the property including the lot and building formerly utilized for storage located in the town of North Bonneville, Washington, Section 19, Township 2N, Range 7 E.W.M. Lot I–2.
(c)
Deed
The Secretary shall convey the property under this subsection by quitclaim deed under such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(d)
Terms and conditions
(1)
Survey to obtain legal description
The exact acreage and the legal description of the real property to be conveyed under this section shall be determined by a survey that is satisfactory to the Secretary.
(2)
Applicability of property screening provisions
Section 2696 of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply to the conveyance under this section.
(3)
Costs of conveyance
The Port of Skamania County shall be responsible for all reasonable and necessary costs, including real estate transaction and environmental documentation costs, associated with the conveyance authorized under this section.
(4)
Liability
The Port of Skamania County shall hold the United States harmless from any liability with respect to activities carried out, on or after the date of the conveyance authorized under this section, on the real property conveyed. The United States shall remain responsible for any liability with respect to activities carried out, before such date, on the real property conveyed.
(5)
Additional terms and conditions
The Secretary may require that the conveyance authorized under this section be subject to such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers necessary and appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(e)
Applicability of right of first refusal provision
Section 401(e) of
Public Law 100–581
(102 Stat. 2944) shall not apply to the conveyance authorized under this section.
(f)
Reversion
(1)
In general
If the Port of Skamania County dissolves after the date of the conveyance authorized under this section, all right, title, and interest in and to the property conveyed shall revert, at the discretion of the Secretary, to the United States.
(2)
Further conveyance authorized
In the event that the reversion described in paragraph (1) occurs, the Secretary is authorized to convey the property described in subsection (b) to Skamania County, Washington, subject to the terms and conditions described in this section.
(g)
Definition
In this section, the term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers.
