1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Courage to Serve Act of 2024
.
2.
Pilot program
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, shall establish a pilot program (hereinafter in this Act referred to as
the program
) to provide for an expedited process for adjustment of status for certain aliens.
(b)
Eligibility
An alien is eligible to participate in the program if the alien—
(1)
successfully completes a background investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
(2)
submits an application for participation in the program at such time, in such form, and including such information as the Secretary may by rule require; and
(3)
as of the date of application to the program—
(A)
has—
(i)
no lawful status under the immigration laws; or
(ii)
temporary protected status under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act;
(B)
is not inadmissible to the United States; and
(C)
is otherwise eligible for enlistment in the Armed Forces.
(c)
Expedited process
In the case of a participant in the program, the following shall apply:
(1)
Not later than 180 days after the date of enlistment in the Armed Forces, the participant shall submit an application for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residency, at such time, in such form, and including such information as the Secretary may by rule require.
(2)
The Secretary shall provide technical assistance with the preparation of an application referred to under paragraph (1).
(3)
If the alien completes 3 years of honorable service in the Armed Forces or if the alien completes 1 year of honorable service in an active-duty status in the Armed Forces or if the alien completes 30-days of honorable service in a designated combat zone, the Secretary shall provide expedited consideration of such an application.
(d)
Not subject to numerical limitations
An alien whose status is adjusted to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residency under this section is not subject to the worldwide levels or numerical limitations of section 201(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
(e)
Status during participation
A participant in the program may not be detained under the immigration laws, and no removal proceeding may be commenced or continued against such participant.
(f)
Effect on other immigration benefits
Nothing in this Act may be construed to provide that application to or participation in the program precludes an alien from applying for asylum or parole.
3.
Definitions
For purposes of this Act:
(1)
Terms used have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
(2)
The term
Armed Forces
means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Space Force, and Air Force, including the reserve components.
(3)
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
