1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Streamlining Effective Access and Retrieval of Content to Help Act of 2023
or the
SEARCH Act of 2023
.
2.
Executive agency requirement to use latest available technology for website search function
(a)
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
efficient and effective website search functionality is crucial for American citizens, businesses, and other stakeholders to access information and services provided by executive agencies;
(2)
the use of the latest available technology can significantly enhance website search capabilities, enabling faster and more accurate retrieval of information; and
(3)
the adoption of the latest available technology in website search function can improve transparency, accessibility, and usability of government websites, thereby enhancing public engagement and improving the delivery of services.
(b)
Guidance for executive agency use of the latest available technology for website search function
(1)
OMB Guidance
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall issue guidance to executive agencies to encourage the adoption of the latest available technology available to improve the website search function of the agencies.
(2)
Plan for implementation
Not later than 180 days after the date on which the guidance is issued pursuant to paragraph (1), the chief information officer of each executive agency shall submit to the Director a plan to meet the requirement described in subsection (a) that includes a timeline for implementation of the requirement, estimated costs, and expected outcomes.
(3)
Reporting Requirement
Not later than one year after the date on which the guidance is issued pursuant to paragraph (1), the head of each executive agency shall submit to the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report that describes the progress made in meeting the guidance described in paragraph (1), including any challenges encountered and the measures taken to overcome them.
(c)
Exemption of national security systems
This section shall not apply to any national security system.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(2)
Executive agency
The term
executive agency
has the meaning given the term
Executive agency
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
National security system
The term
national security system
has the meaning given that term in section 3552 of title 44, United States Code.
(e)
Effective date
This Act shall take effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
