1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
AR–15 Perimeter Security Enhancement Act
.
2.
Co-extensive perimeter and securing elevated positions requirements
(a)
Requirements
(1)
Co-extensive perimeter requirement
The Director of the Secret Service shall ensure that any security perimeter is co-extensive with the firing range of firearms likely to be used in an assassination attempt, specifically covering a radius of not less than 500 yards.
(2)
Securing elevated positions requirement
The Director of the Secret Service shall secure all elevated positions within the firing range of such firearms to prevent unauthorized access and potential threats.
(b)
Reporting
(1)
Cost assessment
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Secret Service shall conduct a cost assessment and provide a financial estimate for the implementation of this Act to Congress.
(2)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every six months thereafter until the Director of the Secret Service, as determined by the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security, complies with the requirement under subsection (a), the Director of the Secret Service shall submit to Congress a detailed report on the plan’s implementation, including progress and any adjustments made.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Elevated position
The term
elevated position
includes any location that is above the primary security perimeter and provides a strategic advantage for targeting, including rooftops, balconies, and elevated platforms.
(2)
Firing range
The term
firing range
—
(A)
means the minimum effective distance within which a firearm can accurately target and inflict damage; and
(B)
includes in the case of AR–15, high-caliber rifles (such as the .308 Winchester or .300 Winchester Magnum), bolt-action rifles (such as the Remington 700), and semi-automatic pistols (such as the Glock 17 or SIG Sauer P226), a distance of approximately 500 yards.
(3)
Primary security perimeter
The term
primary security perimeter
means the perimeter on the ground.
(d)
Effective date
This Act shall take effect 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
