1.
Short Title
This Act may be cited as the
School Bus Driver Shortage Relief Act
.
2.
Establishment of a National School Bus Driver Shortage Task Force
(a)
In General
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall establish within the Department of Education a task force, to be known as the
School Bus Driver Shortage Task Force
(in this Act referred to as the
Task Force
), to provide information and recommendations relating to increasing access to free, reliable, and high-quality transportation for students enrolled in public schools.
(b)
Duties
The Task Force—
(1)
not later than 180 days after the establishment of the Task Force, shall publish online, and distribute to State educational agencies and local educational agencies, an interim and accessible compilation of resources, guidance, and evidence-based information for State educational agencies and local educational agencies containing best practices on how—
(A)
to increase access to free, reliable, and high-quality transportation for students enrolled in public schools; and
(B)
to address disparities or shortages in public school driver supply;
(2)
not later than 60 days after the establishment of the Task Force, and at least once each calendar quarter thereafter until the Task Force is dissolved, shall recommend to the Secretary ideas for guidance and regulations related to—
(A)
increasing access to free, reliable, and high-quality transportation for students enrolled in public schools; and
(B)
addressing disparities or shortages in public school driver supply; and
(3)
shall submit the reports required under subsection (e).
(c)
Membership
(1)
Number and appointment
The Secretary shall appoint not fewer than 10, and not more than 15, individuals to the Task Force, including the following:
(A)
At least 1 representative from the Department of Labor.
(B)
At least 3 representatives from the Department of Transportation.
(C)
At least 2 representatives from labor unions which represent public school bus drivers.
(D)
At least 1 representative from labor unions which represent public school faculty and staff.
(E)
At least 1 representative from organizations representing parents of students enrolled in a public school.
(F)
At least 1 representative from civil rights organizations.
(2)
Terms
(A)
In general
Each member of the Task Force shall be appointed for a term of 2 years or until the dissolution of the Task Force. The Secretary may reappoint members to the Task Force for such additional 2-year terms as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(B)
Vacancies
The Secretary shall fill a vacancy in the Task Force in the same manner as the original appointment not later than 30 days after the date on which such vacancy occurs.
(3)
Basic pay
(A)
Rates of pay
To the extent or in the amounts provided in advance in appropriation Acts, members of the Task Force shall each be entitled to receive the daily equivalent of the minimum annual rate of basic pay for grade GS–12 of the General Schedule for each day (including travel time) during which such members are engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the Task Force.
(B)
Prohibition of compensation of Federal employees
Members of the Task Force who are full-time officers or employees of the United States may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of their service on the Task Force.
(4)
Travel expenses
Each member shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of
chapter 57
of title 5, United States Code.
(5)
Quorum
A majority of the members of the Task Force shall constitute a quorum.
(6)
Chairperson
The Chairperson of the Task Force shall be elected by the members of the Task Force. The term of office of the Chairperson shall be 2 years. If the position of Chairperson becomes vacant, the members of the Task Force shall select a new Chairperson not later than 30 days after the date on which the position became vacant.
(7)
Meetings
The Task force shall meet not less frequently than twice a quarter.
(8)
Subcommittees
The Task Force may form subcommittees, which shall meet as often as required.
(d)
Experts and consultants; staff of Federal agencies
(1)
Experts and consultants
With the approval of the Task Force, the Chairperson may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Staff of Federal agencies
Upon request of the Chairperson, the head of any Federal department or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that department or agency to the Task Force to assist it in carrying out its duties under this Act.
(e)
Reports
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the first meeting of the Task Force, and not less frequently than once every 2 years thereafter or until the dissolution of the Task Force, the Task Force shall submit to the Secretary, to the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions of the Senate, a report that includes the information in paragraph (2).
(2)
Report requirements
The reports submitted under paragraph (1) shall include each of the following:
(A)
The condition of public school transportation in the United States, including any disparities in the supply of public school bus drivers on the basis of—
(i)
geographic location (or urban or rural status) of a public school or local educational agency; and
(ii)
demographic characteristics of enrolled students or their families, including—
(I)
race and ethnicity;
(II)
foreign-born and English as a second language status;
(III)
income and wealth;
(IV)
age; and
(V)
disability status.
(B)
A root-cause analysis of the trends in the supply of public school bus drivers over the 20-year period preceding the date of enactment of this Act.
(C)
A comprehensive examination of compensation for public school bus drivers including—
(i)
salary or hourly earnings;
(ii)
offered hours of work per week;
(iii)
summer employment, or access to unemployment insurance;
(iv)
retirement savings; and
(v)
health care insurance.
(D)
Consideration of working conditions for public school bus drivers including—
(i)
student discipline and behavior;
(ii)
personal safety; and
(iii)
school bus temperatures and ventilation.
(E)
Consideration of the impact of privatization on the public school transportation system.
(F)
Recommendations to address and alleviate any disparities or shortages in the supply of public school bus drivers identified under subparagraphs (A) through (E), including areas for executive action and areas for legislative action at the Federal and State level, and guidance for State educational agencies and local educational agencies.
3.
Government Accountability Office report
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States, shall submit to Congress and make publicly available, a report that identifies recommended changes at the Federal executive and legislative levels to address any disparities or shortages in the supply of public school bus drivers.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
ESEA terms
The terms
elementary school
,
local educational agency
,
parent
,
secondary school
,
Secretary
, and
State educational agency
have the meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(2)
Public school
The term
public school
means—
(A)
a public elementary school; and
(B)
a public secondary school.
