1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Opportunity to Compete Act
.
2.
Restrictions relating to prospective employees’ educational credentials
The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (
29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after section 7 the following new section:
8.
Guidance relating to educational credentials
(a)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (b), an employer may only use, in the consideration of prospective employees for a position of employment, a computerized hiring system if such system—
(1)
discloses to the prospective employee the median years or expected years of experience required for a position, which may include experience received through military service, community college, training programs, and some college; and
(2)
if the employer requires a bachelor’s degree for the position, considers a prospective employee who has the required years of experience described in paragraph (1) as meeting the degree requirement.
(b)
Waiver of requirement
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Labor shall provide an exemption to the requirements under paragraph (2) of subsection (a) with respect to certain positions of employment with an employer if such employer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that—
(A)
the skills and knowledge required for such position of employment cannot reasonably be obtained without a bachelor’s degree; and
(B)
the employer discloses the requirement of a bachelor’s degree to all prospective employees in a timely manner.
(2)
Application for exemption
An employer seeking an exemption under this subsection shall submit an application for such exemption to the Secretary of Labor at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may require.
(3)
Timeline for exemption application
The Secretary of Labor shall—
(A)
not later than 7 days after receiving an application for an exemption, notify the employer submitting such application that the Secretary of Labor has received their application; and
(B)
not later than 14 days after receiving such an application, notify such employer whether the application has been accepted or denied.
(c)
Exemption for certain employers
An employer that employs less than 500 employees shall not be subject to the requirements of this section.
(d)
Enforcement
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Opportunity to Compete Act, the Secretary of Labor shall establish appropriate procedures for the enforcement of this section.
(e)
Computerized hiring system defined
For the purposes of this section, the term
computerized hiring system
means a recruitment management system, recruitment marketing system, applicant tracking system, or any other computer-based system that receives, manages, tracks, evaluates, or responds to applications for employment.
.
