1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
IHS Provider Expansion Act
.
2.
Indian Health Service Office of Graduate Medical Education Programs
Title I of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (
25 U.S.C. 1611 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
125.
Office of Graduate Medical Education Programs
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary, acting through the Service, (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) shall establish within the Service an Office of Graduate Medical Education Programs (in this section referred to as the
Office
).
(b)
Duties
The Office shall have the following duties:
(1)
To create a pipeline for future health care professionals, paraprofessionals, and other health-related professionals (as identified by the Secretary) to participate in residency and fellowship programs.
(2)
To oversee current residency and fellowship programs at facilities of the Service and facilitate the establishment of additional residency programs that support recruitment and retention of health care professionals, paraprofessionals, and other health-related professionals (as identified by the Secretary) working at such facilities.
(3)
To serve as the central hub for residency programs at facilities of the Service.
(4)
To work in consultation or coordination with academic institutions.
(5)
To coordinate medical student and elective rotational and education track programs.
(c)
Interagency working group
(1)
In general
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Labor, the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, and the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, shall establish an interagency working group (in this subsection referred to as the
working group
) to assist the Secretary in establishing the Office under subsection (a), including by—
(A)
supporting the implementation of the Office; and
(B)
developing long-term planning for long-term sustainability of the Office.
(2)
Quarterly reports
Not later than the date that is 120 days after the date of enactment of this section, and every 3 months thereafter, the working group shall submit to Congress a report on the activities of the working group.
(3)
Termination
The working group shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after the date of enactment of this section.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
Subject to the availability of appropriations, there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, not less than—
(1)
$4,000,000 for fiscal year 2026; and
(2)
$4,000,000 for each subsequent fiscal year.
.
