1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sunscreen in Parks Findings Act
or the
SPF Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The National Cancer Institute estimates there will be approximately 100,640 new cases of skin melanomas and 8,290 related deaths from skin cancer in the United States in 2024.
(2)
People of all skin colors are at risk for skin cancer, skin aging, and sunburn from spending time in the sun.
(3)
Sunscreen is most effective at protecting against skin cancer rates when paired with other protective methods, including—
(A)
limiting time in the sun, specifically when rays are most intense; and
(B)
wearing protective clothing to cover exposed skin.
(4)
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) continues to evaluate the safety and efficacy of sunscreen products. According to the FDA, only broad-spectrum sunscreens with a sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 15 help to protect from skin cancer and early aging.
(5)
The National Park Service recommends that visitors apply nonnanotized, mineral-based sunscreens, which provide strong sun protection with few health concerns.
(6)
According to the 2020 National Center for Health Statistics National Health Interview Survey, about 69 percent of Americans used sunscreen at least occasionally in 2020, up from 60 percent in 2000.
(7)
A 2022 American Academy of Dermatology survey found that many United States adults have room for improvement in terms of sun protection and found the following:
(A)
67 percent incorrectly believed that SPF 30 sunscreen offers twice as much protection as SPF 15 sunscreen.
(B)
65 percent said they often forget to reapply sunscreen.
(C)
43 percent were unaware that shade protects a person from ultraviolet (UV) rays.
(8)
Some States, including Colorado, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island, have provided free sunscreen stations for visitors to State parks.
(9)
A 2022 George Mason University report to the National Park Service recommends that
national parks stock sunscreen and sun-protective UPF clothing in prominent displays with signage on recommended sun protection behaviors
.
3.
Report to Congress
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Park Service shall provide to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report outlining options for the provision of mineral-based, broad-spectrum sunscreen and other sun protection methods at low or no cost in national parks, including but not limited to—
(1)
public-private partnerships;
(2)
partnerships with nonprofit organizations;
(3)
unobligated funding within the National Park Service budget; and
(4)
any other option that could support the provision of free mineral-based sunscreen and other low-cost protective methods to park visitors.
(b)
Content of report
The report required under subsection (a) shall address topics including but not limited to—
(1)
the potential environmental impacts of any sunscreen provided in the national parks;
(2)
the equitable usability of sunscreen provided for park visitors, specifically the ability of sunscreen to blend with all skin tones; and
(3)
a plan for increasing awareness in the parks regarding the importance of sun protection to prevent skin damage and skin cancer.
(c)
Legislative recommendations
The report required under subsection (a) shall include recommendations for measures that Congress can take to support the effort for the National Park Service to increase options for sun protection in national parks.
