1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
320th Barrage Balloon Battalion Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion was activated on December 10, 1942, and their first combat assignment took place on the beaches of Utah and Omaha in Normandy, France, during the D-Day invasion.
(2)
The Soldiers of the Battalion played a crucial role in protecting the Allied forces during the D-Day invasion by deploying barrage balloons to prevent enemy aircraft from targeting the invasion forces directly. Their bravery and determination exemplify the valor and dedication of African-American soldiers during World War II.
(3)
The 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion was unique at Normandy for two reasons. First, it was the only American barrage balloon unit in France and second, it was the only African-American combat unit to land in Normandy.
(4)
The brave men of the 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion faced intense enemy fire during the D-Day invasion. Their mission was to raise flammable hydrogen-filled barrage balloons to protect assaulting infantry and armor from being strafed by enemy aircraft. The balloons, armed with small bombs, flew at an altitude of up to 2,000 feet to defend soldiers landing on the beaches against strafing attacks by German aircraft.
(5)
The 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion came up with an ingenious solution to one problem they had during the landing. They refitted RL–31 Signal Corps field cable winches with barrage balloon reels, which weighed only 35 pounds and were mounted in the back of a jeep to deploy and control balloons on D-Day.
(6)
Despite the severe conditions and many balloons being shot down, the battalion successfully deployed their balloons which were credited with protecting incoming Allied ships, troops, and crucial material from attack. The battalion was credited with downing at least one, if not several, German Ju–88 aircraft, significantly contributing to the overall security and success of the invasion and the Allied victory.
(7)
Additionally, at approximately 10:15 A.M. on June 6, 1944, five battalion medics with the 320th were the first to land on Omaha Beach, with crews of three-to-four men joining them shortly after. U.S. Army Corporal Waverly B. Woodson Jr. was among them.
(8)
Cpl Woodson was injured when his Landing Craft, Tank (LCT 856) hit a sea mine and was, then, struck by an artillery shell. Despite his injuries, Woodson continued to perform his duties, conducting an amputation, setting limbs and removing bullets over a 30-hour period. He even revived three men via artificial respiration. His efforts on D-Day are believed to have treated more than 200 wounded soldiers and saved countless lives. On September 24, 2024, Cpl Woodson was posthumously awarded the Distinguished Service Cross—the highest award the Army can bestow on its own authority—in recognition of his valor and heroism. He was recommended for the Medal of Honor by Gen. John C.H. Lee, but never received it.
(9)
The 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion served 140 days in France, providing vital air defense during the critical early stages of the invasion. In late July 1944, Battery A of the 320th moved from Omaha Beach to the port city of Cherbourg, while the remaining batteries stayed on Omaha and Utah Beaches until early October, when deteriorating weather prevented ships from landing.
(10)
Following their service in the European Theater, the 320th underwent training at Camp Stewart, Georgia prior to their deployment to the Pacific. On May 6, 1945, the 320th arrived in Oahu, Hawaii, in support of the proposed Allied invasion of Japan which never took place.
(11)
A commendation by Supreme Allied Commander General Dwight D. Eisenhower cited the unit for conducting its mission with courage and determination, proving to be an important element of the air defense team. Despite their significant contributions, the 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion has not received the recognition it deserves in the annals of World War II history.
(12)
Albert Grillette Wood Jr., the last surviving member of this unit, died on June 2, 2024. His passing marked the end of an era, marking it fitting to honor the memory and service of these brave men.
(13)
The story of the 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion serves as a powerful reminder of the contributions and sacrifices of African-American soldiers in World War II, whose patriotic commitment and perseverance in the face of adversity during D-Day deserve national recognition and commemoration.
3.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a single gold medal of appropriate design in honor of the 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion, collectively, in recognition of their extraordinary heroism and life-saving actions during the D-Day invasion, and their significant contributions to the success of the Allied forces during World War II.
(b)
Design and striking
For the purposes of the award described in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike the gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
(c)
Smithsonian Institution
(1)
In general
After the award of the gold medal under subsection (a), the medal shall be given to the Smithsonian Institution, where the medal shall be available for display, as appropriate, and made available for research.
(2)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Smithsonian Institution should make the gold medal received under paragraph (1) available elsewhere, particularly at—
(A)
appropriate locations associated with the 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion, D-Day, World War II, and African American service members;
(B)
the National Museum of African American History and Culture;
(C)
the National World War II Museum in New Orleans;
(D)
the National Museum of the United States Army; and
(E)
any other location determined appropriate by the Smithsonian Institution.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck under section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the costs thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medal
Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceed of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck under this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
