1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Wildfire Resiliency Through Satellites Act of 2024
.
2.
Monitoring wildfires by satellite
(a)
Grant program To monitor wildfires by satellite
(1)
Establishment
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish a competitive grant program under which the Secretary shall make at least three grants to eligible entities to monitor wildfires by satellite (in this section referred to as the
Program
).
(2)
Eligible projects
Each eligible entity awarded a grant under the Program shall only use such grant to—
(A)
purchase and integrate, through a public-private partnership, high-resolution multispectral thermal infrared data from the latest-generation of wildfire monitoring satellites; and
(B)
use the data acquired under subparagraph (A), as well as any analyses relating to such data, to detect, assess, respond to, and manage wildfires, with an emphasis on—
(i)
monitoring active fire behavior and burn intensity;
(ii)
ensuring the safety and effectiveness of prescribed fire treatments; and
(iii)
guiding post-disaster recovery.
(3)
Application
To be eligible for a grant under the Program, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(4)
Grant amount
Each grant awarded under the Program shall be in an amount the Secretary determines appropriate.
(5)
Report
Not later than the last day of the second fiscal year beginning after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that includes—
(A)
the number of applications received for a grant under the Program;
(B)
details of each eligible entity that was awarded a grant under the Program;
(C)
the impact of the Program on wildfire prevention;
(D)
any recommendation that the Secretary determines appropriate to establish the Program as a long-term grant program; and
(E)
any other information on the effectiveness of the Program that the Secretary determines appropriate.
(b)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2027 to carry out the Program.
(c)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
eligible entity
means a State forester, emergency manager, or equivalent State official; and
(2)
the term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Geological Survey.
