1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Increasing Nutrition Access for Seniors Act of 2024
.
2.
Amendments
(a)
Definition
Section 3(f) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2012(f)
) is amended in the second sentence by inserting
, or 36 months if that household has no earned income
before the period at the end.
(b)
Excess medical expense deduction
Section 5(e)(5)(A) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2014(e)(5)(A)
) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(i)
before
A
, and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(ii)
(I)
A State agency may establish a standard medical deduction option for elderly or disabled household members who self-attest to having medical expenses in excess of $35 a month (exclusive of special diets).
(II)
The standard medical deduction amount shall be—
(aa)
for fiscal year 2025, $155; and
(bb)
for each subsequent fiscal year, equal to the applicable amount for the immediately preceding fiscal year as adjusted to reflect changes for the 12-month period ending the preceding June 30 in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers: Medical Care published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor.
(III)
For any fiscal year, a State agency may establish a greater standard medical expense deduction than described in subclause (II) if the State provides reasonable evidence for a more accurate assessment of average monthly medical costs in their State.
.
(c)
Administration
Section 11(e)(3) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2020(e)(3)
) is amended by inserting after
this Act
the second place it appears the following:
(except that State agency may use data matches in lieu of income verification if the household qualifies for a 36-month certification period under section 3(f))
.
3.
Effective date; application of amendments
(a)
Effective date
Except as provided in subsection (b), this Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b)
Application of amendments
The amendments made by this Act shall not apply with respect to certification periods that begin before the effective date of this Act.
