1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Emergency Electric Grid Stabilization Act
.
2.
Temporary Federal assistance to stabilize the electric grid
(a)
Provision of temporary assistance
Not later than 10 days after receiving a request from an affected State for assistance in stabilizing the electric grid in such State, including for assistance with addressing an electricity outage or electricity generation shortage, the Secretary may provide assistance to such State as the Secretary determines necessary and appropriate to stabilize the electric grid in such State, including by providing technical assistance, temporary electricity generation, provision of equipment, or any other relevant assistance.
(b)
Duration
The Secretary shall provide assistance to an affected State under subsection (a) until such time as the Secretary, in coordination with the State, determines that the electric grid in the State is stabilized.
(c)
Reports
During any period in which assistance is being provided to an affected State under subsection (a), the Secretary, in coordination with the State and any applicable entity in the State that is responsible for electricity generation, transmission, or distribution, shall at least monthly submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate, a report on—
(1)
electricity generation levels in the State;
(2)
progress in stabilizing the electric grid in the State;
(3)
additional resources, including appropriations, needed to stabilize the electric grid in the State; and
(4)
a timeline to complete the work to stabilize the electric grid in the State.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Affected State
The term
affected State
means a State in which there is an electricity generation shortage, or a failure of equipment for the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity, that has resulted in a disruption of the electric grid within the State.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers.
(3)
Stabilize
The term
stabilize
means, with respect to an electric grid, to make the electric grid resilient to disruptions caused by an electricity generation shortage or a failure of equipment for the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity.
(4)
State
The term
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000,000.
