1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Closing the Digital Divide for Students Act of 2024
.
2.
Inclusion of high-speed internet service in public housing utility allowances for certain families
Subsection (b) of section 3 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(14)
Utility allowance
A utility allowance under this Act for public housing shall include costs for high-speed internet service, including the cost of renting or purchasing equipment necessary to access such service and a one-time installation fee, subject to the following limitations:
(A)
Cost
The cost included in a utility allowance for a public housing dwelling unit pursuant to this paragraph for monthly internet service shall not—
(i)
exceed the lowest cost available in the area of such housing for such monthly high-speed internet service; and
(ii)
include any costs for cable or satellite television service or telephone service.
(B)
Family choice
Subparagraph (A) may not be construed to prohibit a household in public housing from subscribing to—
(i)
a high-speed internet service the cost of which exceeds the cost described in subparagraph (A)(i); or
(ii)
any joint package for internet service together with cable or satellite television service or telephone service, or both.
(C)
Qualified families
Costs for high-speed internet service may be included in a utility allowance only for a household that incurs such costs and includes children who qualify for free and reduced price lunch pursuant to section 9 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (
42 U.S.C. 1758
).
(D)
Protection of minors
Costs for high-speed internet service may be included in a utility allowance for a household only if the internet service provider, upon initial provision of such service for a household, provides the household with a specific technology capable of blocking or filtering internet access to visual depictions described in section 254(h)(5)(B)(i) of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 254(h)(5)(B)(i)
) that provides a level of protection against access by minors to such depictions through the internet that is at least as great as the level of protection provided by a technology protection measure (as such term is defined in paragraph (7) of such section 254(h)) that meets the requirements for certification under such paragraph, as determined by the Secretary.
.
