1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
College Thriving Act
.
2.
Grant program authorized; application requirements
(a)
Grant program authorized
The Secretary of Education shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible institutions to carry out skills-for-success courses for all first-year students enrolled at such institutions.
(b)
Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible institutions that are historically Black colleges and universities.
(c)
Grant period; Minimum grant amount
(1)
Grant period
A grant awarded to an eligible institution under this Act shall be for a 5-year grant period.
(2)
Minimum grant amount
(A)
In general
Subject to subparagraph (B), a grant under this Act shall be awarded in an amount of $1,000,000 for the 5-year grant period for such grant.
(B)
Ratable increases or decreases
The amount specified in subparagraph (A) shall be ratably increased or decreased to the extent that funds available under section 5 exceed or are less than (respectively) the amount required to provide the amounts specified in subparagraph (A).
(d)
Application requirements
To be eligible to receive a grant under this Act, an eligible institution shall submit an application at such time, and in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, which shall include a description of—
(1)
the skills-for-success course that the institution will develop and implement with the grant; and
(2)
the activities the institution will carry out under each phase described in section 3(b).
3.
Uses of funds; report
(a)
In general
Each eligible institution receiving a grant under this section shall develop and implement a skills-for-success course by carrying out the activities listed in each of the 4 phases described in subsection (b).
(b)
Phases for uses of funds
(1)
Preparation phase
During the first year of the grant period, the eligible institution shall use such grant to develop the skills-for-success course and carry out the necessary preparation activities, which may include—
(A)
identifying and training instructional staff;
(B)
obtaining support from faculty, staff, or institution administration for the curricular adaptation;
(C)
developing infrastructure for implementation, including obtaining necessary course and syllabus approvals;
(D)
determining how student registration will be handled;
(E)
establishing a course evaluation model; and
(F)
designating appropriate classroom space.
(2)
Pilot phase
During the second year of the grant period, the eligible institution shall use such grant to implement a pilot skills-for-success course, which shall include the piloting of methods for evaluating the course, such as observation and solicitation of feedback from course instructors, students, and identified campus community leaders.
(3)
Implementation
During the third, fourth, and fifth years of the grant program, the eligible institution shall use such grant to fully implement the skills-for-success course, which—
(A)
incorporates the improvements identified during the pilot skills-for-success course during the second year of the grant period; and
(B)
is made available for each first-year student enrolled at the institution, at the beginning of such students’ first term of enrollment at such institution, to the extent practicable.
(c)
Report
Each eligible institution that receives a grant under this Act shall submit to the Secretary a report upon the completion of the 5-year grant period, which shall include—
(1)
an evaluation of the pilot skills-for-success course, and the skills-for-success course implemented during the third through fifth years of the grant period; and
(2)
a description of how such grant was used during each year of the grant period.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Eligible institution
The term
eligible institution
has the meaning given the term
institution of higher education
in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
) and section 102(a)(1)(B) of such Act (20 U.S.C.1002(a)(1)(B)).
(2)
Historically Black colleges and universities
The term
historically Black colleges and universities
has the meaning given the term
part B institution
in section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1061
)).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Education.
(4)
Skills-for-success course
The term
skills-for-success course
means a course offered by an eligible institution for first-year students (including transfer students) at the beginning of such students’ first term of enrollment at such institution that—
(A)
has a low student-to-teacher ratio;
(B)
is not graded or is pass-fail; and
(C)
provides skills for success in college, and includes each of the following topics:
(i)
Development of connections with campus partners (academic advisors) or engagement with campus resources (campus mental health counselors).
(ii)
Mental well-being.
(iii)
Time management skills.
(iv)
Planning and organization skills.
(v)
Coping with stress and setbacks.
(vi)
Managing conflict and difference.
(vii)
Goal setting.
(viii)
Building and maintaining healthy interpersonal relationships.
(ix)
Self-care and compassion.
5.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated 50,000,000 to carry out this Act, which shall remain available until expended.
