1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Government Agencies Affordable Housing Conversion Act of 2024
.
2.
Annual housing conversion report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in coordination with the Administrator of General Services and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall conduct a study and submit to Congress a report, to be known as the
Annual Housing Conversion Report
, that examines—
(1)
whether the real estate owned by the Federal Government is being optimized;
(2)
whether the amount of real estate owned by the Federal Government should be reduced; and
(3)
whether any real estate owned by the Federal Government could be converted into affordable dwelling units.
3.
Expansion of Exploring Office to Residential Conversions grant program
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the grant program originally announced by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development on June 21, 2023, known as the
Exploring Office to Residential Conversions Program
, $1,750,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2030.
4.
State and local affordable housing conversion grant program
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall establish a grant program, to be known as the
Office to Residential Affordable Housing Conversion Program
(in this section referred to as the
Conversion Program
), to facilitate the conversion of buildings owned by a State or unit of local government into qualified residential rental projects.
(b)
Eligible recipients
In administering the Conversion Program, the Secretary shall make grants available to States and units of local government on a competitive basis in accordance with this section.
(c)
Application
To be eligible for a grant under the Conversion Program, an entity described in subsection (b) shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(d)
Use of funds
Each entity that is awarded an amount under the Conversion Program may use such amount for the acquisition of an eligible building and any costs associated with converting such building into qualified residential rental projects.
(e)
Consultation with continuum of care project sponsors
Each entity that is awarded an amount under the Conversion Program is encouraged to consult with a local project sponsor receiving amounts under the continuum of care program under subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.
).
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible building
The term
eligible building
means a building that the Secretary, in coordination with the Administrator of General Services, determines is unused or underutilized and suitable for residential development.
(2)
Qualified residential rental project
The term
qualified residential rental project
means any project for residential rental property that at all times for the period that is not less than 30 years, or the minimum period that a State or unit of local government decides that is not less than 30 years, meets the following requirements:
(A)
The project requires that—
(i)
20 percent or more of the residential units in such project are occupied by a household with an income that does not exceed 50 percent of the median income for the area;
(ii)
40 percent or more of the residential units in such project are occupied by a household with an income that does not exceed 60 percent of the median income for the area; or
(iii)
the average income of a household occupying 40 percent or more of the residential units in such project does not exceed 60 percent of the median income for the area, although individual residential units within that 40 percent of units may be occupied by a household with an income that does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area.
(B)
The housing costs, including water and sewer, electricity, heating, cooling, trash, and recycling, and other specific circumstances of the property that may also be considered in affordability calculations under local regulations, with respect to each residential unit described in subparagraph (A) does not exceed 30 percent of the income limit described in subparagraph (A) that applies to the household occupying such unit.
(3)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Conversion Program $250,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2030.
