1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Airport Energy Resiliency and Renewable Energy Act
.
2.
Grant program
(a)
Program
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a program under which the Secretary shall award grants to sponsors of air carrier airports for an eligible project that directly and substantially benefits the airport.
(2)
Application
A sponsor of an air carrier airport seeking a grant under the program under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including an assurance to comply with any labor regulations set forth in subchapter I of
chapter 471
of title 49, United States Code.
(b)
Eligible projects
For purposes of this section, an eligible project includes any project to acquire or install new renewable energy generation resources, such as solar photovoltaic panels, battery storage systems, or microgrids.
(c)
Federal share
The maximum Federal share of allowable project costs for an eligible project carried out with a grant under this section is 90 percent.
(d)
Administration
Of the amounts made available under subsection (f), the Secretary may reserve up to 2 percent for the administrative costs of carrying out this section.
(e)
Consultation
In implementing this section, the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Energy.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
In addition to any amounts otherwise made available, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027 for the purpose of carrying out this section.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Air carrier airport
The term
air carrier airport
has the meaning given that term in section 47102 of title 49, United States Code.
(2)
Microgrid
The term
microgrid
has the meaning given that term in section 641 of the United States Energy Storage Competitiveness Act of 2007 (
42 U.S.C. 17231
).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
(4)
Sponsor
The term
sponsor
has the meaning given that term in section 47102 of title 49, United States Code.
