1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Office of Disaster Recovery Act
.
2.
Disaster recovery office
(a)
In general
Title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3191 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
508.
Disaster Recovery Office
(a)
Disaster recovery office
The Secretary shall establish an Office of Disaster Recovery to direct and implement the Economic Development Administration’s post-disaster economic recovery responsibilities pursuant to sections 209(c)(2) and (e) and 703, economic recovery support function activities as directed under the National Disaster Recovery Framework, and as necessary to administer disaster appropriations made available for such purposes.
(b)
Appointment and compensation
(1)
Appointment
The Secretary is authorized to appoint such temporary personnel as may be necessary to implement post-disaster economic recovery responsibilities, without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of
chapter 33
of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service and compensation of personnel.
(2)
Conversion of employees
Notwithstanding
chapter 33
of title 5, United States Code, or any other provision of law relating to the examination, certification, and appointment of individuals in the competitive service, the Secretary is authorized to convert a temporary employee appointed under this subsection to a permanent appointment in the competitive service in the Economic Development Administration under merit promotion procedures if—
(A)
the employee has served continuously for at least 2 years under one or more appointments under this subsection; and
(B)
the employee's performance has been at an acceptable level of performance throughout the period or periods referred to in subparagraph (A).
(3)
Compensation
An individual converted under this subsection shall become a career-conditional employee, unless the employee has already completed the service requirements for career tenure.
.
(b)
Grants for economic adjustment
Section 209 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3149
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(f)
Federal share for disaster recovery
In the case of a grant provided under this section for a project for economic recovery in response to a major disaster or emergency declared under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
), the Secretary shall increase the Federal share to 100 percent of the cost of the project.
.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations for disaster economic recovery activities
Section 703 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3233
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Special rule for Federal share of disaster recovery
The Federal share of the cost of a project for economic recovery in response to a major disaster or emergency declared under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
) funded with amounts made available under subsection (a) shall be 100 percent.
.
