1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Consent is Key Act
.
2.
Increased funding for formula grants authorized
The Attorney General shall increase the amount provided to a State under the covered formula grant if the State has in effect a law that authorizes a civil action, for damages and such equitable relief as may be appropriate, against a person who engages in nonconsensual sexual protection barrier removal.
3.
Application
A State seeking an increase in the amount provided to the State under the covered formula grant shall include in the application of the State for each covered formula grant such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require, including information about the law described in section 2.
4.
Grant increase
The amount of the increase provided to a State under the covered formula grant shall be equal to not more than 20 percent of the average of the total amount of funding provided to the State under the covered formula grant under the 3 most recent awards to the State.
5.
Period of increase
(a)
In general
The Attorney General shall provide an increase in the amount provided to a State under the covered formula grant for a 4-year period.
(b)
Limit
The Attorney General may not provide an increase in the amount provided to a State under the covered formula grant more than 4 times.
6.
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.
7.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered formula grant
The term
covered formula grant
means a grant under section 41601 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (
34 U.S.C. 12511 et seq.
) (commonly referred to as the
Sexual Assault Services Program
).
(2)
Nonconsensual sexual protection barrier removal
The term
nonconsensual sexual protection barrier removal
means removal of a sexual protection barrier from a body part, including the genitals, or an object being used by a person for sexual contact with another person without the consent of each person involved in such sexual contact, causing sexual contact between the body parts, including the genitals, or objects being used for sexual contact, and the body of any person engaged in such sexual contact.
(3)
Sexual protection barrier
The term
sexual protection barrier
may include a condom, including an internal condom, a dental dam, or any other barrier against sexual fluids during sexual contact.
