1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Civil Service Federal Employee Serving Overseas Pay Equity Act
.
2.
Locality pay for Federal employees working overseas under Domestic Employee Teleworking Overseas agreements
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Civil service
The term
civil service
has the meaning given the term in section 2101 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Covered employee
The term
covered employee
means an employee who—
(A)
occupies a position in the civil service; and
(B)
is working overseas under a Domestic Employee Teleworking Overseas agreement.
(3)
Locality pay
The term
locality pay
means a locality-based comparability payment paid in accordance with subsection (b).
(4)
Nonforeign area
The term
nonforeign area
has the meaning given the term in section 591.205 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
(5)
Overseas
The term
overseas
means any geographic location that is not in—
(A)
the continental United States; or
(B)
a nonforeign area.
(b)
Payment of locality pay
Each covered employee shall be paid locality pay in an amount that is equal to the lesser of—
(1)
the amount of a locality-based comparability payment that the covered employee would have been paid under section 5304 or 5304a of title 5, United States Code, had the official duty station of the covered employee not been changed to reflect an overseas location under the applicable Domestic Employee Teleworking Overseas agreement; or
(2)
the amount of a locality-based comparability payment that the covered employee would be paid under section 1113 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (
Public Law 111–32
), as limited under section 9802(c)(2) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, if the covered employee were an eligible member of the Foreign Service (as defined in subsection (b) of such section 1113).
(c)
Application
Locality pay paid to a covered employee under this section—
(1)
shall begin to be paid not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2)
shall be treated in the same manner, and subject to the same terms and conditions, as a locality-based comparability payment paid under section 5304 or 5304a of title 5, United States Code.
