1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
The Emergency Relief Program Reauthorization Act of 2022
.
2.
Qualified losses of covered crops occurring in calendar year 2022
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall carry out a program to make payments—
(1)
for necessary expenses related to qualified losses of covered crops occurring in calendar year 2022 in accordance with subsection (b); and
(2)
to producers of livestock, as determined by the Secretary, for losses incurred during calendar year 2022 due to drought or wildfires.
(b)
Administration of payments
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), payments to producers for qualified losses of covered crops under subsection (a) shall be administered in the same manner and under the same terms and conditions as payments made under the heading
Department of Agriculture—Agricultural Programs—Processing, Research and Marketing—Office of the Secretary
in the Extending Government Funding and Delivering Emergency Assistance Act (
Public Law 117–43
).
(2)
Exceptions
(A)
Qualified losses during calendar year 2022
Payments under subsection (a) shall apply to—
(i)
qualified losses of covered crops occurring in calendar year 2022; and
(ii)
losses of livestock incurred during calendar year 2022 due to drought or wildfires.
(B)
Payment limitation
With respect to payment limitations applied for losses described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall apply separate payment limitations for losses occurring in calendar year 2022.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered crop
The term
covered crop
means crops (including milk, on-farm stored commodities, crops prevented from planting in 2022, and harvested adulterated wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines.
(2)
Qualified loss
The term
qualified loss
means a—
(A)
loss of a covered crop as a consequence of a drought, wildfire, hurricane, flood, derecho, excessive heat, winter storm, freeze (including a polar vortex), smoke exposure, or excessive moisture, as determined by the Secretary; and
(B)
quality loss of a covered crop, as determined by the Secretary.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
