1.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Although several studies have found significant improvements in police-citizen encounters following the implementation of body-worn cameras a recent meta-analysis of the available research literature found that overall, the use of body-worn cameras had no statistically significant impact on officers’ use of force.
(2)
Evidence suggests that one barrier to continuous quality improvement through use of body-worn cameras is lack of monitoring or a structured system of accountability. Body-worn camera footage appears to be used for other purposes, such as confirming the details of events for reports, rather than quality improvement efforts.
(3)
Preliminary evidence from health care settings suggests that body-worn cameras can have significant effects on behavior if they are used for the purpose of continuous quality improvement and feedback is provided.
(4)
Researchers have suggested that the implementation of the health care model may show similar positive outcomes in police accountability.
2.
Pilot program for body-worn camera continuous training
(a)
Establishment of Program
The Attorney General is authorized to establish a pilot program to determine the effectiveness of body-worn camera continuous training programs in improving policing, including community relations with law enforcement.
(b)
Grants authorized
(1)
In general
The Attorney General is authorized to award grants to States and units of local government (as such terms are defined in section 901 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10251
)) to assist in carrying out body-worn camera continuous training programs.
(2)
Duration
The Attorney General shall award grants under this section for a period not to exceed 3 years.
(3)
Application
(A)
In general
The head of a jurisdiction seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require.
(B)
Contents
Each application submitted pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall—
(i)
describe the activities for which assistance under this section is sought; and
(ii)
provide such additional assurances as the Attorney General determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated $X for each of the fiscal years 2022 through 2025 to carry out this section.
(d)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report on the pilot program carried out under this section.
(e)
Body-Worn camera continuous training program defined
In this Act, the term
body-worn camera continuous training program
means a training program carried out by a law enforcement agency, on an ongoing basis, that includes a supervisor conducting a review of a law enforcement officer’s body-worn camera footage with that law enforcement officer, in order to improve policing, including community relations with law enforcement.
