1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small and Homestead Independent Producers Act of 2022
.
2.
Authority for small cultivators and manufacturers of marijuana to ship marijuana in the mail
A small cultivator of marijuana and a small manufacturer of a marijuana product may ship and sell marijuana or a marijuana product to an individual located in that State or another State in which possession of marijuana or the marijuana product is lawful by that individual, using the Postal Service or any private or commercial interstate carrier.
3.
Preemption
This Act preempts the laws of any State to the extent that such laws are inconsistent with this Act.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
small cultivator of marijuana
means a person who cultivates one acre or less of mature flowering marijuana plant canopy using outdoor cultivation, 22,000 square feet or less of marijuana plant canopy using greenhouse cultivation, or 5,000 square feet or fewer of mature flowering marijuana plant canopy using indoor cultivation, inclusive of all marijuana cultivated by that person.
(2)
The term
small manufacturer of a marijuana product
means a person who produces a manufactured marijuana product, including a salve, tincture, edible, or concentrate, with a gross annual revenue of less than $5,000,000, inclusive of all marijuana product manufactured by that person.
(3)
The term
person
has the meaning given such term in section 1 of title 1, United States Code.
(4)
The term
outdoor cultivation
means the cultivation of mature cannabis without the use of artificial lighting or heating in the canopy area at any point in time, and may include the use of light deprivation.
(5)
The term
light deprivation
means the use of any technique to eliminate natural light in order to induce flowering.
(6)
The term
greenhouse cultivation
means the cultivation of mature cannabis in a structure utilizing artificial light at a rate above zero watts per square foot, but no more than six watts per square foot.
(7)
The term
indoor cultivation
means the cultivation of mature cannabis in a structure with the use of artificial light at a rate above six watts per square foot in the canopy area.
(8)
The term
canopy
means the area that contains mature cannabis plants at any point in time.
(9)
The term
mature
means, with respect to a cannabis plant, a cannabis plant that is flowering.
5.
Effective date
This Act shall take effect on the date on which marijuana is removed from the list of scheduled substances under the Controlled Substances Act and Federal criminal penalties for an individual who manufactures, distributes, or possesses marijuana, are eliminated.
