1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Closing Loopholes, Ending Anonymous Revolving Doors Act
or the
CLEAR Doors Act
.
2.
Reporting requirements
(a)
Reporting requirement
Section 5 of Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (
2 U.S.C. 1604
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
(e)
48-Hour reports
(1)
In general
No later than 48 hours after a lobbyist engages in special lobbying activities, the registrant involved shall file a report with the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives on such activities.
(2)
Contents of report
Each report filed under paragraph (1) shall contain the following items:
(A)
The name of the registrant.
(B)
The name of the client.
(C)
The name of the covered executive branch official of the agency.
(D)
A description of the issue discussed before such agency official.
(E)
The date on which such lobbying activities occurred.
(3)
Special rule for new registrants
If a lobbyist engages in special lobbying activities prior to the registration of the lobbyist (or, if applicable, the organization employing such lobbyist) with the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives under section 4(a), the lobbyist or organization shall register with the Secretary and the Clerk under such section not later than 48 hours after the lobbyist or organization engages in such activities.
(4)
Special lobbying activities defined
In this subsection, the term
special lobbying activities
means any lobbying activity consisting of a lobbying contact made by an employee of a client with a covered executive branch official of an agency of which such lobbyist was formerly employed during the 4–year period that ends on the date of such contact.
.
(b)
Lobbyist definition
Section 3(10) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (
2 U.S.C. 1602(10)
) is amended to read as follows:
(10)
Lobbyist
(A)
In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), term
lobbyist
means any individual who is employed or retained by a client for financial or other compensation for services that include more than one lobbying contact.
(B)
Exception
(i)
20 percent rule
Except as provided in clause (ii), subparagraph (A) does not apply to an individual with respect to a client if the individual’s lobbying activities constitute less than 20 percent of the time engaged in the services provided by such individual to that client over a 3–month period.
(ii)
Special lobbying activities exception
Clause (i) does not apply to special lobbying activities under section 5(e).
.
(c)
Conforming and technical amendments
(1)
Lobbyist registration
Section 4(a)(1) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (
2 U.S.C. 1603(a)(1)
) is amended by striking
No later than
and inserting
Except as provided in section 5(e)(3), no later than
.
(2)
Cross-reference
Section 6(a)(4) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (
2 U.S.C. 1605(a)(4)
) is amended by striking
section 5(e)
and inserting
section 5(f)
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to lobbying activities occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
