1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prompt Refunds for Cancelled Flights Act
.
2.
Prompt refunds for cancelled flights
(a)
Unfair and deceptive practices and unfair methods of competition
Section 41712 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Prompt refunds for cancelled flights
(1)
In general
It shall be an unfair or deceptive practice under subsection (a) for any air carrier, foreign air carrier, or ticket agent that sells a ticket for air transportation to fail to provide a covered refund with respect to such ticket if the air transportation is cancelled or significantly changed.
(2)
Exclusion
Paragraph (1) does not apply if a ticket holder voluntarily accepts alternative transportation or other compensation offered in lieu of a covered refund.
(3)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Covered refund
The term
covered refund
means a refund of the amount paid for a ticket for air transportation that is provided—
(i)
to the holder of the ticket;
(ii)
in the same format in which the amount was paid; and
(iii)
not later than—
(I)
in the case of payment by credit card, debit card, or other electronic format, 48 hours after the relevant cancellation or significant change; or
(II)
in the case of payment by cash or check, 14 days after the relevant cancellation or significant change.
(B)
Significantly changed
The term
significantly changed
means, with respect to air transportation, that—
(i)
the departure or arrival time associated with such transportation has changed—
(I)
in the case of air transportation within the United States, by 3 or more hours; or
(II)
in the case of air transportation to or from a location outside the United States, by 6 or more hours;
(ii)
the departure or arrival airport associated with such transportation has changed;
(iii)
the number of intermediate stops associated with such transportation has increased; or
(iv)
the type of aircraft associated with such transportation has changed and, as determined by the Secretary, the change will result in a significant downgrade of the air transportation experience.
.
(b)
Civil penalties
Section 46301(a) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Penalty for failure To provide covered refund
Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (5)(D), the amount of a civil penalty for a violation of section 41712(d) shall be the amount that is 10 times the amount paid for the relevant cancelled or significantly changed air transportation.
.
