1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Technology Leadership Act of 2022
.
2.
Office of Global Competition Analysis
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Executive agency
The term
Executive agency
has the meaning given such term in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Office
The term
Office
means the Office of Global Competition Analysis established under subsection (b).
(b)
Establishment
(1)
In general
The President shall establish an office on analysis of global competition.
(2)
Director
The office shall be headed by a Director of Global Competition Analysis who shall be appointed by the President.
(3)
Purposes
The purposes of the Office are as follows:
(A)
To carry out a program of analysis on United States leadership in technology and innovation sectors critical to national security and economic prosperity relative to other countries, particularly those countries that are strategic competitors of the United States.
(B)
To support policy development and decision making to ensure United States leadership in technology and innovation sectors critical to national security and economic prosperity.
(4)
Designation
The Office shall be known as the
Office of Global Competition Analysis
.
(5)
Authority to accept details on a non-reimbursable basis
The Director may accept officers or employees of the United States or members of the Armed Forces on a detail from an element of the intelligence community (as such term is defined in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003(4)
)) or from another element of the Federal Government on a non-reimbursable basis, as jointly agreed to by the heads of the receiving and detailing elements, for a period not to exceed three years.
(c)
Activities
In accordance with the priorities determined under subsection (d), the Office shall—
(1)
acquire and prepare data relating to the purposes of the Office under subsection (b), including data relating to critical technologies, innovation, and production capacity in the United States and other countries, consistent with applicable provisions of law;
(2)
conduct long- and short-term analysis regarding—
(A)
United States policies that enable technological competitiveness relative to those of other countries, particularly with respect to countries that are strategic competitors of the United States;
(B)
United States science and technology ecosystem elements relative to those of other countries, particularly with respect to countries that are strategic competitors of the United States;
(C)
United States competitiveness in technology and innovation sectors critical to national security and economic prosperity relative to other countries, including the availability of United States technology in such sectors abroad, particularly with respect to countries that are strategic competitors of the United States;
(D)
trends and trajectories, including rate of change in technologies, related to technology and innovation sectors critical to national security and economic prosperity;
(E)
threats to United States national security interests as a result of any foreign country’s dependence on technologies of strategic competitors of the United States; and
(F)
threats to United States interests based on dependencies on foreign technologies critical to national security and economic prosperity; and
(3)
engage with private sector entities on matters relating to analysis under paragraph (2).
(d)
Determination of priorities
On a periodic basis, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the National Economic Council, and the National Security Council, in coordination with such heads of such Executive agencies as the Director and the Councils jointly consider appropriate, shall jointly determine the priorities of the Office with respect to subsection (b)(2)(A).
(e)
Administration
To carry out the purposes set forth under subsection (b)(2), the Office may enter into an agreement with a public-private or a federally funded research and development center, a university affiliated research center, or consortium of federally funded research and development centers, and university affiliated research centers.
(f)
Access to, Use, and Handling of Information
(1)
Federal information
In carrying out the activities under subsection (c), the Office shall have access to all information, data, or reports of any Executive agency that the Office determines necessary to carry out this section—
(A)
upon written request;
(B)
subject to limitations under applicable provisions of law; and
(C)
consistent with the protection of sources and methods, law enforcement strictures, protection of proprietary information of businesses, and protection of personally identifiable information.
(2)
Commercial information
The Office may obtain commercially available information that may not be publicly available.
(3)
Use of information
The Office may use information obtained under this subsection for purposes set forth under subsection (b)(2).
(4)
Handling of information
The Office shall handle information obtained under this subsection subject to all restrictions required by the source of the information.
(g)
Additional Support
A head of an Executive agency may provide to the Office such support, in the form of office space, furniture, financial assistance and personnel, as the head considers appropriate to assist the Office in carrying out any activity under subsection (c), consistent with the priorities determined under subsection (d).
(h)
Annual Report
Not less frequently than once each year, the Office shall submit to Congress a report on the activities of the Office under this section. Reports and briefings produced by Office personnel shall be transmitted to Congress as these publications are released during each fiscal year.
(i)
Initial Report
Within 90 days of establishment, Office personnel shall brief Congress on the Office’s organizational structure, including key personnel roles and responsibilities, along with the initial Office plan of activities for fiscal year 2023 and the five years following establishment of the Office.
(j)
Authorization of Appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
