1.
Requiring CMI testing of incentive payments for behavioral health providers and certain other providers for adoption and use of certified electronic health record technology
(a)
In general
Section 1115A(b)(2) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315a(b)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by inserting
, except that the models selected under this subparagraph shall include the models described in subparagraph (B)(xxv) (with policy decisions regarding the scale of funding, number of behavioral health provider participants, and the length of the demonstration program to be determined by the Secretary)
after
subparagraph (B)
;
(2)
in subparagraph (B)(xxv), by striking
to improve quality and coordination
and inserting
and implementing interoperability projects provisions to improve the integration, quality, and coordination pursuant to Section 4003 of the 21st Century Cures Act
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following flush left matter:
Behavioral health providers participating in models authorized under clause (xxv) shall not be eligible for health information technology incentive payments unless these providers demonstrate (through a process specified by the Secretary (such as the use of attestation)) that they have acquired health information systems that meet the 2015 Office of the National Coordinator certification standards and that such systems are fully compliant with regulations specified in the Interoperability and Patient Access Rule (42 C.F.R. 485; 45 C.F.R. 156).
.
(b)
Behavioral IT standards development
In developing models described in section 1115A(b)(2)(B)(xxv) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315a(b)(2)(B)(xxv)
), the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use and the Director of the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information and in consultation with appropriate stakeholders, develop voluntary standards for behavioral health information technology that address issues such as privacy, minimum clinical data standards, and sharing relevant patient health data across the behavioral health care, primary health care, and specialty health care systems.
(c)
Funding
Section 1115A(f)(1) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315a(f)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (C), by striking the period and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
in addition to any amounts made available under subparagraph (B), $250,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2023 through 2025 for purposes of carrying out the model described in subsection (b)(2)(B)(xxv).
.
