1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Invest to Protect Act of 2022
.
2.
Grant program
(a)
Establishment
There is established a grant program—
(1)
to provide training, body cameras, and access to mental health resources to local law enforcement officers; and
(2)
to improve recruitment and retention of local law enforcement officers.
(b)
Authority
Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services of the Department of Justice shall make a grant to an eligible local government.
(c)
Eligible Activities
Amounts from a grant made under this section may be used only for—
(1)
de-escalation training for law enforcement officers;
(2)
training for law enforcement officers in handling situations of domestic violence;
(3)
law enforcement officer safety training;
(4)
the offsetting of overtime costs associated with scheduling issues when a law enforcement officer is participating in such training;
(5)
the purchasing, storage, operation, and securing of body cameras, in accordance with guidelines established by the eligible local government or by the Attorney General under subsection (d) of this section, until the eligible local government establishes such guidelines;
(6)
a signing bonus for a law enforcement officer in an amount determined by the eligible local government;
(7)
a retention bonus for a law enforcement officer in an amount determined by the eligible local government;
(8)
a stipend to be used for graduate education in the area of mental health, public health, or social work in an amount not greater than the lesser of—
(A)
$10,000; or
(B)
the amount the law enforcement officer has paid towards such education; or
(9)
providing access for law enforcement officers to evidence-based mental health services, treatments, and therapies.
(d)
Body camera guidelines
Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall establish guidelines to be used by an eligible local government until such eligible local government establishes guidelines regarding purchasing, storage, operation, and securing of body cameras based on existing industry best-practices.
(e)
Disclosure of officer recruitment and retention bonuses
An eligible local government shall disclose to the Attorney General and make publicly available on a website of the eligible local government the amount of any officer recruitment and retention bonus given under subsection (b)(3) of this section.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.
(g)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
De-escalation training
The term
de-escalation training
means a process or tactic used to prevent, reduce, or manage behaviors associated with conflict (including verbal or physical agitation, aggression, violence, or similar behaviors) during an interaction between two or more individuals.
(2)
Eligible local government
The term
eligible local government
means—
(A)
a county, municipality, town, township, village, parish, borough, or other unit of general government below the State level that employs fewer than 200 law enforcement officers; or
(B)
a tribal government that employs fewer than 200 law enforcement officers.
(3)
Law enforcement officer
The term
law enforcement officer
has the meaning given that term in section 2503 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10533
).
