1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Tribal Capital for Operations Promoting Safety Act
or the
Tribal COPS Act
.
2.
Tribal law enforcement grant program
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a grant program to award amounts to Indian Tribes in accordance with the formula developed pursuant to subsection (b) for the purposes described in subsection (d).
(b)
Formula
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall develop the formula described in subsection (a), which shall take into account the following:
(1)
The size of the Tribal lands of the Indian Tribe.
(2)
The population of the Tribal lands of the Indian Tribe.
(3)
The average response time of the law enforcement agency of the Indian Tribe to an emergency call.
(4)
Such other factors as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(c)
Applications
To be eligible for a grant under this section, an Indian Tribe shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(d)
Uses
Amounts awarded to an Indian Tribe through a grant under this section shall be used to increase the capabilities of the law enforcement agency of such Indian Tribe, including by carrying out the following:
(1)
Compensating law enforcement officers employed by the Indian Tribe, including by providing retention bonuses to such officers.
(2)
Providing training to law enforcement officers employed by the Indian Tribe.
(3)
Providing housing stipends to law enforcement officers employed by the Indian Tribe who principally reside within the Tribal lands of such Indian Tribe.
(4)
Procuring equipment, including vehicles, for use by law enforcement officers employed by the Indian Tribe.
(5)
Procuring, operating, and maintaining facilities for use by law enforcement officers employed by the Indian Tribe.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $8,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Indian Tribe
The term
Indian Tribe
means any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community identified on the list published by the Secretary under section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (
25 U.S.C. 5131
).
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs.
(3)
Tribal lands
The term
Tribal lands
means—
(A)
all lands within the limits of an Indian reservation; and
(B)
any lands to which title is held—
(i)
in trust by the United States for the benefit of an Indian Tribe; or
(ii)
by an Indian Tribe subject to restriction by the United States against alienation and over which an Indian Tribe exercises governmental power.
