1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
VA Work-Study Improvement Act
.
2.
Improvements to VA Work-Study program
(a)
Authorized activities
Subsection (a)(5) of section 3485 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(L)
Any other activity at an agency of a State or local government or a nonprofit organization that would benefit, directly or indirectly, veterans or members of the Armed Forces.
.
(b)
Applicable hourly minimum wage
Paragraph (7) of subsection (a) of such section is amended to read as follows:
(7)
For the purposes of this subsection and subsection (e), the term
applicable hourly minimum wages
means the higher of the following wages:
(A)
The hourly minimum wage under section 6(a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (
29 U.S.C. 206(a)
).
(B)
The hourly minimum wage under comparable law of the State in which the services are to be performed.
(C)
The hourly minimum wage under comparable law of the local government with jurisdiction over the area in which the services are to be performed.
.
(c)
Increased number of work hours authorized
Paragraph (3) of such subsection is amended by striking
25
and inserting
40
.
(d)
Electronic timesheets
Such section is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(f)
The Secretary shall ensure that—
(1)
an individual participating in a qualifying work-study activity may electronically record the hours worked under such activity; and
(2)
the supervisor of such individual may electronically approve such records.
.
(e)
Publication of data
Such section, as amended by subsection (d), is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
On an annual basis, the Secretary shall publish the following information regarding qualifying work-study activities carried out during the covered year:
(1)
The number of individuals who participated in a qualifying work-study activity.
(2)
The demographics of such individuals.
(3)
A description of such activities.
(4)
The wages paid to such individuals.
(5)
The number of hours worked by such individuals.
(6)
A list of the participating educational institutions.
.
(f)
Applicability
The amendments made by this Act shall apply with respect to a payment of work-study allowance made under section 3485 of title 38, United States Code, on or after January 1, 2025.
