1.
Permanent resident status for Oli Mohammed
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding subsection (a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1151
), Oli Mohammed shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1154
) or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident.
(b)
Adjustment of status
If Oli Mohammed enters the United States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (d), he shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1255
) as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Waiver of grounds for removal or denial of admission
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding sections 212(a) and 237(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1182(a)
and 1227(a)), Oli Mohammed may not be removed from the United States, denied admission to the United States, or considered ineligible for lawful permanent residence in the United States by reason of any ground for removal or denial of admission that is reflected in the records of the Department of Homeland Security or the Visa Office of the Department of State on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Rescission of outstanding order of removal
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall rescind any outstanding order of removal or deportation, or any finding of inadmissibility or deportability, that has been entered against Oli Mohammed by reason of any ground described in paragraph (1)
(d)
Deadline for application and payment
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(e)
Reduction of immigrant visa number
Upon the granting of an immigrant visa or permanent residence to Oli Mohammed, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the alien’s birth under section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1153(a)
) or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the alien’s birth under section 202(e) of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1152(e)
).
(f)
Denial of preferential immigration treatment for certain relatives
The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Oli Mohammed shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
