1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Holocaust Education and Antisemitism Lessons Act
or the
HEAL Act
.
2.
Study and report on Holocaust education
(a)
Study
Beginning not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Institute of Education Sciences of the Department of Education (referred to in this Act as the
Director
) shall conduct a study on Holocaust education efforts in public elementary and secondary schools.
(b)
Elements
In conducting the study under subsection (a), the Director shall—
(1)
identify States and local educational agencies that require Holocaust education as part of the curriculum taught in public elementary and secondary schools;
(2)
identify States and local educational agencies that do not require Holocaust education as part of the curriculum taught in public elementary and secondary schools;
(3)
assess the quality of Holocaust education provided by public elementary and secondary schools, including through the qualitative and quantitative analysis of such indicators as—
(A)
in-class discussion;
(B)
educational activities conducted outside the classroom, including homework assignments; and
(C)
project based learning;
(4)
assess the types and quality of instructional materials used to teach students about the Holocaust;
(5)
examine the duration and comprehensiveness of any Holocaust-related courses or lessons provided by public elementary and secondary schools; and
(6)
analyze the approaches used by such schools to assess students’ knowledge of the Holocaust, including the use of traditional and nontraditional assessments.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Following the completion of the study under subsection (a), the Director shall prepare and submit to Congress a report on the results of the study.
(2)
Deadline for submittal
The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted not later than the earlier of—
(A)
180 days after the completion of the study under subsection (a); or
(B)
three years after the date of the enactment of this section.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
ESEA Terms
The terms
elementary school
,
local educational agency
,
secondary school
, and
State
have the meanings given those terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(2)
Holocaust
The term
Holocaust
has the meaning given that term in section 3 of the Never Again Education Act (
Public Law 116–141
;
36 U.S.C. 2301
note).
(3)
Holocaust education
The term
Holocaust education
means educational activities that are specifically intended—
(A)
to improve students’ awareness and understanding of the Holocaust;
(B)
to educate students on the lessons of the Holocaust as a means to raise awareness about the importance of preventing genocide, hate, and bigotry against any group of people; and
(C)
to study the history of antisemitism, its deep historical roots, the use of conspiracy theories and propaganda that target the Jewish people, and the shape-shifting nature of antisemitism over time.
(4)
Project Based Learning
The term
project based learning
means a teaching method through which students learn by actively engaging in real-world and personally meaningful projects.
