1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
District of Columbia Code Returning Citizens Coordination Act
.
2.
Provision of information to the Mayor of the District of Columbia related to certain persons under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Prisons
Notwithstanding any provision of law described in section 3, the Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall provide to the Mayor of the District of Columbia for each person under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Prisons pursuant to the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (
Public Law 105–33
), the following:
(1)
Annually, the following information:
(A)
The name, date of birth, and Federal Register Number of the person.
(B)
The Bureau of Prisons facility where the person is housed.
(C)
The scheduled release date.
(2)
Upon the request of the Mayor, the information that the Director provides for such person to the Director of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia.
3.
Provisions of law described
The provisions of law described in this section are as follows:
(1)
Title II of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (including parts 160 and 165 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations).
(2)
Section 543 of the Public Health Service Act (including part 2 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations).
(3)
Section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the
Privacy Act
).
(4)
Any other provision of Federal law that provides substantially similar protections for the privacy of information as the provisions of law described in paragraphs (1) through (3).
4.
Application of Privacy Act
The provision of information under this Act shall be deemed to be a lawful disclosure under section 552a(b)(7) of title 5, United States Code.
5.
Prohibition on District of Columbia disclosure
The Mayor of the District of Columbia may not disclose the information provided pursuant to this Act outside of the District of Columbia government, except that the Mayor may provide the information provided under paragraph (1) of section 2 to counsel for the detained individuals, and to organizations that provide legal representation to individuals in criminal or post-conviction matters, or in matters related to re-entry.
