1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Valley Forge Park Realignment Permit and Promise Act
.
2.
Right-of-way permit for pipeline segment at Valley Forge NHP
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may issue a right-of-way permit pursuant to part 14 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act), for the covered pipeline segment if the covered pipeline segment is relocated to a proposed realignment of Valley Forge Park Road and North Gulph Road within the Park.
(b)
Limitations
(1)
No expansion, upgrade, or improvement
A right-of-way permit issued under subsection (a) shall not allow expansion, upgrade, or improvement of the covered pipeline segment except as may be required by law for safe operation and maintenance of the pipeline.
(2)
Scope of authority
The authority to grant a right-of-way permit under subsection (a) shall apply only to the covered pipeline segment and shall not apply to any other part of the natural gas distribution pipeline system or any other pipeline system within the Park.
(c)
Additional terms and condition
The Secretary may include any additional terms and conditions in the right-of-way permit issued under subsection (a) as the Secretary determines necessary.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered pipeline segment
The term
covered pipeline segment
means the portions of the natural gas distribution pipeline (including all appurtenances used in the operation of such pipeline) within the Park—
(A)
existing on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(B)
that are located under, along, or adjacent to the segments of North Gulph Road and Valley Forge Park Road (SR3039 and SR0023 respectively, as those roads were aligned on January 21, 2022) that are between—
(i)
the intersection of North Gulph Road with Richards Road; and
(ii)
a point on Valley Forge Park Road located 500 feet northwest of its intersection with County Line Road.
(2)
Park
The term
Park
means Valley Forge National Historical Park.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
