1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Parents Need to Know Act of 2022
.
2.
Notification and reporting requirements relating to threats and emergencies faced by students in elementary and secondary public schools
(a)
Notification and reporting requirements
Subsection (b) of section 1112 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 6312
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (12), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (13) as paragraph (14); and
(3)
by inserting before paragraph (14), as so redesignated, the following new paragraph:
(13)
how the local educational agency will establish procedures for schools served by the local educational agency to provide—
(A)
timely notification to parents, in a manner that does not reveal any personally identifiable information about an individual student, about—
(i)
an unlawful act or significant emergency that occurs on school grounds, during transportation for school-sponsored events, or during school-sponsored activities; or
(ii)
a threat that has been made about an unlawful act or significant emergency occurring on school grounds, during transportation for school-sponsored events, or during school-sponsored activities;
(B)
a plan to address, mitigate, or correct any risks to students associated with the unlawful act or significant emergency; and
(C)
provide annual notice to students, parents, and any individual who works at the school describing the notification procedures established under subparagraph (A); and
.
(b)
Definitions
Section 1112 of such Act (
20 U.S.C. 6312
) is further amended by adding at the end the following:
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Timely notification
The term
timely notification
means, with respect to the notification procedures established under subsection (b)(13)(A), the exercise of reasonable care by a school to contact the parents or other known emergency contacts of students following the use of such notification procedures, including by telephone calls, voice mail messages, text messages, and email messages.
(2)
Unlawful act or significant emergency
The term
unlawful act or significant emergency
means one or more of the following:
(A)
Homicide or accidental death.
(B)
Rape or sexual assault.
(C)
Aggravated assault with intent to cause serious bodily harm.
(D)
Arson.
(E)
Any unauthorized possession or use of a firearm.
(F)
A manmade or natural emergency including any hurricane, tornado, storm, high water, wind driven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, or drought, or, regardless of cause, any fire, flood, explosion, gas leak, building collapse, or damage by aircraft.
.
