1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Advancing Justice for Servicemembers Act
.
2.
Time limit for processing certain administrative complaints
(a)
In general
Chapter 80
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1561b
the following new section:
1561c.
Processing a harassment or military equal opportunity complaint
(a)
Time limit
An official authorized to take final action on a complaint from a member of the armed forces of harassment or prohibited discrimination shall ensure the procedures and requirements for the complaint are completed within 180 days after the date on which any supervisor or designated office received the complaint.
(b)
Judicial review
(1)
Pursuant to section 706(1) of title 5, United States Code, a member of the armed forces may seek an order in a court of the United States directing the Secretary concerned to take final action or provide a written explanation no later than 30 days after the court enters its order, if an authorized official does not—
(A)
take final action on a complaint under subsection (a) within 180 days; or
(B)
provide the member a written explanation of the final action taken on a complaint under subsection (a).
(2)
Pursuant to section 706(2) of title 5, United States Code, and no later than 30 days after a member of the armed forces receives a written explanation of the final action taken on a complaint under subsection (a), the member may seek review of the action in a court of the United States.
(c)
Report
Not later than April 1 each year, the Secretary concerned shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report of the total number of court orders sought under subsection (b) and orders granted by such courts.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means the following:
(A)
The Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
(B)
The Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
(C)
The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
(D)
The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
(2)
The term
complaint
means an allegation or report of harassment or prohibited discrimination.
(3)
The term
designated office
means a military equal opportunity office or an office of the inspector general or staff judge advocate, and any other departmental office authorized by the Secretary concerned to receive harassment and prohibited discrimination complaints.
(4)
The term
harassment
means behavior that is unwelcome or offensive to a reasonable person, whether oral, written, or physical, that creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment.
(5)
The term
prohibited discrimination
means unlawful discrimination, including disparate treatment, of an individual or group on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including pregnancy), gender identity, or sexual orientation.
(6)
The term
member of the armed forces
means a member of an armed force serving on active duty.
(7)
The term
supervisor
means a member of the armed forces in charge or command of other members of the armed forces or a civilian employee (as defined in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code) authorized to direct and control service members.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1561b the following new item:
1561c. Processing a harassment or military equal opportunity complaint.
.
