SECTION 1. The Small Business Administration, as the spokesman for and advocate of the small business community, shall advise and counsel small business concerns in their dealings with the departments and agencies of the United States Government to the end that the views of small business concerns will be fully heard, their rights fully protected, and their valid interests fully advanced.

SEC. 2. Departments and agencies of the Executive Branch of the United States Government shall call upon the Small Business Administration for advice, guidance, and assistance when considering matters which reasonably can be construed as materially affecting the well being or competitive strength of small business concerns or their opportunities for free entry into business, growth, or expansion. In taking action on such matters, these departments and agencies shall act in a manner calculated to advance the valid interests of small business concerns.

SEC. 3. The Small Business Administration, whenever it determines that the valid interests of small business concerns so warrant, shall take such action as may be appropriate to insure the timely presentation to departments and agencies of the United States Government of matters materially affecting the well being or competitive strength of small business concerns or their opportunities for free entry into business, growth, or expansion. To this end, the Small Business Administration may participate in investigations, hearings, or other proceedings pending before such departments or agencies and submit evidence, briefs, and arguments in accordance with, and to the extent permitted by, the department's or agency's rules of practice and procedure.

SEC. 4. In performing the responsibilities and duties placed on it by this order, the Small Business Administration shall particularly consider the needs and interests of minority-owned small business concerns and of members of minority groups seeking entry into the business community.

SEC. 5. Nothing in this order shall be construed to authorize the Small Business Administration to act as an attorney for an individual concern in any investigation, hearing, or other proceeding pending before any department or agency of the United States Government. Nothing in this order shall be construed to subject any department or agency to the authority of any other department or agency, to affect the present authority of any department or agency to participate in the proceedings of another department or agency, or to affect the authority of the Attorney General under 28 U.S.C. 519.

SEC. 6. The term "small business concern" as used in this order shall have the same meaning as in the Small Business Act.
