Section 1

.

Purpose

. In order to secure  's economic prosperity and national security, lower the cost of living, and provide for increases in electrical demand from emerging technologies, we must increase domestic energy production, including coal.   is abundant and cost effective, and can be used in any weather condition. Moreover, the industry has historically employed hundreds of thousands of  .  's coal resources are vast, with a current estimated value in the trillions of dollars, and are more than capable of substantially contributing to   energy independence with excess to export to support allies and our economic competitiveness. Our Nation's beautiful clean coal resources will be critical to meeting the rise in electricity demand due to the resurgence of domestic manufacturing and the construction of artificial intelligence data processing centers. We must encourage and support our  's coal industry to increase our energy supply, lower electricity costs, stabilize our grid, create high-paying jobs, support burgeoning industries, and assist our allies.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   that coal is essential to our national and economic security. It is a national priority to support the domestic coal industry by removing Federal regulatory barriers that undermine coal production, encouraging the utilization of coal to meet growing domestic energy demands, increasing   coal exports, and ensuring that Federal policy does not discriminate against coal production or coal-fired electricity generation.

 . 3

.

Strengthening Our National Energy Security

. The Chair of the National Energy Dominance Council ( ) shall designate coal as a "mineral" as defined in section 2 of Executive Order 14241 of   (  Increase American Mineral Production), thereby entitling coal to all the benefits of a "mineral" under that order. Further, Executive Order   is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "4332(d)(1)(B)" in section 6(d) of that order and replacing it with a reference to "4532(d)(1)(B)".

 . 4

.

Assessing Coal Resources and Accessibility on Federal Lands

. (a) Within   of this order, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Energy shall submit a consolidated report to the President through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy that identifies coal resources and reserves on Federal lands, assesses impediments to mining such coal resources, and proposes policies to address such impediments and ultimately enable the mining of such coal resources by either private or public actors.

(b) The Secretary of Energy shall include in the report described in subsection (a) of this section an analysis of the impact that the availability of the coal resources identified could have on electricity costs and grid reliability.

 . 5

.

  to Coal Mining on Federal Lands

. (a) The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of Agriculture shall prioritize coal leasing and related activities, consistent with applicable law, as the primary land use for the public lands with coal resources identified in the report described in section 4(a) of this order and expedite coal leasing in these areas, including by utilizing such emergency authorities as are available to them and identifying opportunities to provide for expedited environmental reviews, consistent with applicable law.

(b) The Secretary of the  , pursuant to the authorities in the Mineral Leasing Act of  , as amended and supplemented (30 U.S.C. 181

et seq

.), the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands of  , as amended (30 U.S.C. 351-359), and   of   (30 U.S.C. 521-531

et seq

.), shall acknowledge the end of   by ordering the publication of a notice in  

terminating the "Environmental Impact Statement Analyzing the Potential Environmental Effects from   Secretary  's  ", and process royalty rate reduction applications from Federal coal lessees in as expeditious a manner as permitted by applicable law.

 . 6

.

  as an Energy Source

. (a) Within   of the date of this order,  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of the   shall identify any guidance, regulations, programs, and policies within their respective executive department or agency that seek to transition the Nation away from coal production and electricity generation.

(b) Within   of this order, the heads of all relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall consider revising or rescinding Federal actions identified in subsection (a) of this section consistent with applicable law.

(c) Agencies that are empowered to make loans, loan guarantees, grants, equity investments, or to conclude offtake agreements, both domestically and abroad, shall, to the extent permitted by law, take steps to rescind any policies or regulations seeking to or that actually discourage investment in coal production and coal-fired electricity generation, such as the   U.S. Treasury   Multilateral Development Banks rescinded by   and similar policies or regulations.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Chief Executive Officer of  , the President of  , and the heads of all other agencies that have discretionary programs that provide, facilitate, or advocate for financing of energy projects shall review their charters, regulations, guidance, policies, international agreements, analytical models and internal bureaucratic processes to ensure that such materials do not discourage the agency from financing coal mining projects and electricity generation projects. Consistent with law, and subject to the applicable agency head's discretion, where appropriate, any identified preferences against coal use shall immediately be eliminated except as explicitly provided for in statute.

 . 7

.

 

. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Assistant to the President for  , and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall take all necessary and appropriate actions to promote and identify export opportunities for coal and coal technologies and facilitate international offtake agreements for   coal.

 . 8

.

Expanding Use of Categorical Exclusions for Coal Under  

. Within   of the date of this order, each agency shall identify to   any existing and potential categorical exclusions pursuant to  , increased reliance on and adoption of which by other agencies pursuant to 42 U.S.C.   could further the production and export of coal.

 . 9

.

Steel Dominance

. (a) The Secretary of  , pursuant to the authority under the Energy Act of   (the "Act"), shall determine whether coal used in the production of steel meets the definition of a "critical material" under the Act and, if so, shall take steps to place it on  .

(b) The Secretary of the  , pursuant to the authority under the Act, shall determine whether metallurgical coal used in the production of steel meets the criteria to be designated as a "critical mineral" under the Act and, if so, shall take steps to place coal on  .

 . 10

.

Powering Artificial Intelligence Data Centers

. (a) For the purposes of this order, "artificial intelligence" or "AI" has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 9401(3).

(b) Within   of this order, the Secretary of the  , Secretary of  , and the Secretary of Energy shall identify regions where coal-powered infrastructure is available and suitable for supporting   data centers; assess the market, legal, and technological potential for expanding coal-based infrastructure to power data centers to meet the electricity needs of   and high-performance computing operations; and submit a consolidated summary report with their findings and proposals to  , the Assistant to the President for   and   and  .

 . 11

.

Acceleration of Coal Technology

. (a) The Secretary of Energy shall take all necessary actions, consistent with applicable law, to accelerate the development, deployment, and commercialization of coal technologies including, but not limited to, utilizing all available funding mechanisms to support the expansion of coal technology, including technologies that utilize coal and coal byproducts such as building materials, battery materials, carbon fiber, synthetic graphite, and printing materials, as well as updating coal feedstock for power generation and steelmaking.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of Energy shall submit a detailed action plan to the President through   outlining the funding mechanisms, programs, and policy actions taken to accelerate coal technology deployment.

 . 12

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
