Section 1. Crime Emergency

.  , I declared a crime emergency in   to address the rampant violence and disorder that have undermined the proper and safe functioning of  , and therefore, the  , and that have led to disgraceful conditions in our  's capital. In furtherance of Executive Order   of   (Declaring a Crime Emergency in  ), I am now ordering further actions to address the conditions described in that Executive Order.

 . 2. Operational Actions

. (a) The Director of   shall, subject to the availability of appropriations and applicable law, hire additional members of   Park Police in   to support the policy goals described in Executive Order  .   Park Police shall ensure enforcement of all applicable laws within their jurisdiction, including the Code of the District of Columbia, to help maintain public safety and proper order.

(b)   Attorney for   shall, subject to the availability of appropriations and applicable law, hire additional prosecutors to focus on prosecuting violent and property crimes.

(c)   established in Executive Order   (Making  ), shall establish an online portal for   with law enforcement or other relevant backgrounds and experience to apply to join Federal law enforcement entities to support the policy goals described in Executive Order  . Each law enforcement agency that is a member of   Safe and Beautiful Task Force, as well as other relevant components of   as the Attorney General determines, shall further, subject to the availability of appropriations and applicable law, immediately create and begin training, manning, hiring, and equipping a specialized unit that is dedicated to ensuring public safety and order in the  's capital that can be deployed whenever the circumstances necessitate, and that could be deployed, subject to applicable law, in other cities where public safety and order has been lost.

(d)(i) The Secretary of   shall, subject to the availability of appropriations and applicable law, immediately create and begin training, manning, hiring, and equipping a specialized unit within   Columbia National Guard, subject to activation under Title 32 of the United States Code, that is dedicated to ensuring public safety and order in the  's capital. As appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall each deputize the members of this unit to enforce Federal law.

(ii) The Secretary of   shall immediately begin ensuring that each  's   and   are resourced, trained, organized, and available to assist  ,  , and local law enforcement in quelling civil disturbances and ensuring the public safety and order whenever the circumstances necessitate, as appropriate under law. In coordination with the respective adjutants general, the Secretary of   shall designate an appropriate number of each  's trained   members to be reasonably available for rapid mobilization for such purposes. In addition, the Secretary of   shall ensure the availability of a standing   quick reaction force that shall be resourced, trained, and available for rapid nationwide deployment.

(e) The Secretary of   ( ) shall investigate any non-compliance with the crime-prevention and safety requirements of   agreements by   Columbia Housing Authority or any landlord in  . These investigations shall include consideration of the provisions of such agreements that require housing providers to maintain safe, decent, and sanitary conditions or to restrict tenants who engage in criminal activity that threatens health, safety, and the right to peaceful enjoyment for other tenants, including engaging in drug distribution, violent criminal activity, and domestic violence. The Secretary of   shall refer any findings of non-compliance to the Attorney General, Federal law enforcement authorities,   Columbia Housing Authority Police Department, and  , as appropriate.

(f) The Secretary of   shall conduct additional inspections, audits, and examinations to determine whether conditions exist in federally-funded transit services in   that endanger transit workers, and take appropriate remedial action that is within   authority.

 . 3.  . (a) The Attorney General shall review   and shall request that the Mayor of   make such updates and modifications to such orders as the Attorney General determines are necessary to address the crime emergency and ensure public order and safety.

 . 4. Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any individual or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 5. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
