Section 1

.

Policy

. Faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship have tremendous ability to serve individuals, families, and communities through means that are different from those of government and with capacity and effectiveness that often exceeds that of government. These organizations lift people up, keep families strong, and solve problems at the local level. The executive branch wants faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to compete on a level playing field for grants, contracts, programs, and other   funding opportunities. The efforts of faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship are essential to strengthening families and revitalizing communities, and   welcomes opportunities to partner with such organizations through innovative, measurable, and outcome-driven initiatives.

The executive branch is committed to ensuring that all executive departments and agencies (agencies) honor and enforce the Constitution's guarantee of religious liberty and to ending any form of religious discrimination by  .

Sec. 2

.

Amendments to Executive Orders

. (a) Executive Order   (Agency Responsibilities With Respect to    ); Executive Order   of   (Equal Protection of the Laws for Faith-Based and Community Organizations), as amended by Executive Order   of   (  Policymaking Criteria for Partnerships With Faith-Based and Other Neighborhood Organizations); Executive Order   of   (Responsibilities of   and the Agency for International Development With Respect to    ); Executive Order   (Responsibilities of   and   and   to    ); and Executive Order   (Responsibilities of   to    ), are hereby amended by:

(i) substituting " " for "  and Community Initiatives" or "  OFBCI" each time it appears in those orders; and

(ii) substituting "Center for Faith" for "Center for Faith-based and  ," and "Centers for Faith" for "Centers for Faith-based and  " each time they appear in those orders.

(b) Executive Order  , as amended by Executive Order  , is further amended by striking section 2(h) and redesignating sections 2(i) and 2(j) as sections 2(h) and 2(i), respectively.

 . 3

.

Establishment of  

. (a) There is established within   of the President (EOP)  ). The Office shall have lead responsibility in the executive branch to empower faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship to serve families and communities.

(b) The Office shall be housed in   and headed by a Senior Advisor to  , and supported by other positions as the President considers appropriate. In carrying out this order, the Office shall work with  ,  , and the Centers for Faith established by Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , as amended by section 2(a)(ii) of this order.

 . 4

.

 

. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the Office shall:

(i) from time to time, consult with and seek information from experts and various faith and community leaders identified by   and other EOP components, including those from outside   and those from  , local, and   governments. These experts and leaders shall be identified based on their expertise in a broad range of areas in which faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship operate, including protecting women and children; strengthening marriage and family; lifting up individuals through work and self-sufficiency, defending religious liberty; combatting  ,  , and additional forms of anti-religious bias; promoting foster care and adoption programs in partnership with faith-based entities; providing wholesome and effective education; preventing and reducing crime and facilitating prisoner reentry; promoting recovery from substance use disorder; and fostering flourishing minds;

(ii) make recommendations to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, regarding changes to policies, programs, and practices, and aspects of my  's policy agenda, that affect the ability of faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship to serve families and communities;

(iii) convene meetings with representatives from   and other representatives from across agencies as appropriate;

(iv) advise on the implementation throughout   of those aspects of my  's policy agenda aimed at enabling faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship to better serve families and communities;

(v) showcase innovative initiatives by faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship that serve and strengthen individuals, families, and communities throughout  ;

(vi) coordinate with all agencies to implement training and education throughout the country for faith-based entity grantees to build their capacity to procure grants;

(vii) support agencies in developing and implementing training and education regarding religious liberty exceptions, accommodations, or exemptions;

(viii) consult with public and private businesses regarding their policies for employee volunteerism, charitable giving, and payroll deductions;

(ix) coordinate with agencies on identifying and promoting grant opportunities for non-profit faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship, especially those inexperienced with public funding but that operate effective programs;

(x) work in collaboration with the Attorney General, or a designee of the Attorney General, to identify concerns raised by faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship about any failures of the executive branch to enforce constitutional and Federal statutory protections for religious liberty; and

(xi) identify and propose means to reduce burdens on the free exercise of religion, including legislative, regulatory, and other barriers to the full and active participation of faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship in government-funded or government-conducted activities and programs.

(b) Agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide such information, support, and assistance to the   as may assist the   in fulfilling this order.

(c) The Directors of   shall oversee their respective agency's efforts to assist the   in carrying out this order, and shall report on such efforts to agency leadership and  . Agencies that lack a Center for Faith shall designate or appoint a   within the agency to oversee the agency's efforts to assist the   in carrying out this order and to report on such efforts to agency leadership and the Office. All such agencies shall designate or appoint such a   within   of the date of this order.

 . 5

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
