Section 1. Background

. Executive Order   (Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to  ), found that the actions and policies of   constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of   and declared a national emergency to deal with that threat. Numerous subsequent Executive Orders—including Executive Order   of   (Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to  ); Executive Order  Authorizing   to  , or Support for  's  ); Executive Order   of   (Authorizing Additional Sanctions With Respect to  ); Executive Order   (Imposing Sanctions With Respect to Additional Sectors of  ); and others—have further described the threat posed by   and taken additional action to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  . For example, Executive Order   of September 28, 2010 (Blocking Property of Certain Persons With Respect to Serious Human Rights Abuses by   Taking Certain Other Actions), took additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , including authorizing the blocking of property to address serious human rights abuses against persons in  . Executive Order   of   (Reimposing Certain Sanctions With Respect to  ), also took additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , including imposing sanctions to advance the goal of applying financial pressure on the   regime in pursuit of a comprehensive and lasting solution to the full range of the threats posed by  .

I have received additional information from various senior officials on, among other things, the actions and policies of  , including the circumstances related to the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and expanded on in subsequent orders. After considering this additional information, among other things, I find that the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and further described in subsequent orders continues and that the actions and policies of   continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or substantial part outside  , to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  .

To deal with the national emergency described in Executive Order   and subsequent orders, I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to impose an additional

ad  

duty on imports of articles that are products of foreign countries that directly or indirectly purchase, import, or otherwise acquire any goods or services from  . In my judgment, the tariff regime, as described below, in addition to maintaining the other measures taken to address the national emergency described in Executive Order   and subsequent orders, will more effectively deal with the national emergency described in those orders.

 . 2. Imposition of Tariffs

. (a) Beginning on the effective date of this order, an additional

ad  

rate of duty—for example, 25 percent—may be imposed on goods imported into   that are products of any country that directly or indirectly purchases, imports, or otherwise acquires any goods or services from  , in accordance with subsections (b) and (c) of this section.

(b)(i) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and any senior official the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall determine whether, after the effective date of this order, a foreign country directly or indirectly purchases, imports, or otherwise acquires any goods or services from  . After the Secretary of   finds that a foreign country directly or indirectly purchases, imports, or otherwise acquires any goods or services from  , the Secretary of   shall inform the Secretary of   of his finding, including any information relevant to that finding.

(ii) The Secretary of   may issue rules, regulations, and guidance necessary or appropriate to implement this order. The Secretary of   may also make any other determinations or take any other actions necessary or appropriate to implement this order.

(c)(i) After the Secretary of   makes an affirmative finding pursuant to subsection (b)(i) of this section and informs the Secretary of   of his finding, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , shall determine whether and to what extent an additional

ad  

rate of duty should be imposed on goods that are products of the foreign country found to directly or indirectly purchase, import, or otherwise acquire goods or services from  .

(ii) If the Secretary of   determines that an additional

ad  

rate of duty should be imposed on goods that are products of the country found to directly or indirectly purchase, import, or otherwise acquire goods or services from  , the Secretary of   shall inform me of his recommendation, and the Secretary of Commerce shall inform me of his finding related to that recommendation. I will then consider the recommendation and finding, among other relevant things, in determining whether and to what extent to impose an additional

ad  

rate of duty on goods that are products of the country in question.

(iii) The Secretary of   may issue rules, regulations, and guidance necessary or appropriate to implement this order. The Secretary of   may also make any other determinations or take any other actions necessary or appropriate to implement this order.

 . 3.  

. (a) To ensure that the national emergency described in section 1 of this order is dealt with, I may modify this order, including in light of additional information, recommendations from senior officials, or changed circumstances.

(b) Should a foreign country retaliate against   in response to this order or any action taken pursuant to this order, I may modify this order or actions taken pursuant to this order to ensure the efficacy of this order and the actions taken pursuant to this order to deal with the national emergency described in section 1 of this order.

(c) Should   or a foreign country affected by this order take significant steps to address the national emergency described in section 1 of this order and align sufficiently with   on national security, foreign policy, and economic matters, I may modify this order.

 . 4. Monitoring and Recommendations

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with any senior official the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall monitor the circumstances involving the national emergency described in section 1 of this order. The Secretary of   shall inform me of any circumstance that, in his opinion, might indicate the need for further Presidential action.

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , and any other senior official the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall recommend to me additional action, if necessary, if the actions in this order or taken pursuant to this order are not effective in dealing with the national emergency described in section 1 of this order.

(c) The Secretary of   shall monitor whether a foreign country directly or indirectly purchases, imports, or otherwise acquires any goods or services from  . The Secretary of Commerce shall continue such monitoring after a foreign country has been found to do so.

 . 5. Delegation

. Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and   are directed and authorized to take all actions necessary to implement and effectuate this order—including through temporary suspension or amendment of regulations or through notices in  and by adopting rules, regulations, or guidance—and to employ all powers granted to the President, including by  , as may be necessary to implement this order. The head of each executive department and agency (agency) is authorized to and shall take all appropriate measures within the agency's authority to implement this order. The head of each agency may, consistent with applicable law, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, redelegate the authority to take such appropriate measures within the agency.

 . 6. Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "goods or services from  " shall be construed consistent with 31 C.F.R. 560.306, and the term shall include only goods or services for which   persons are prohibited from trading in with respect to  .

(b) The term "indirectly" includes purchases, imports, or other acquisitions of   goods and services through intermediaries or third countries where the origin of the good or service can reasonably be traced to  , as determined by the Secretary of  .

(c) The term " " means  , its territory, and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and   shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements.

(d) The term "Government of Iran" includes  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including   and  , and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran.

 . 7.  

. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

 . 8. Severability

. If any provision of this order or the application of any provision of this order to any individual or circumstance is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected. If the action in this order or any action taken pursuant to this order is held invalid, the other actions imposed to deal with the national emergencies declared with respect to   shall not be affected and shall remain in effect.

 . 9. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
