Section 1. National Emergency

. As President of  , I have an imperative duty to protect the national security and foreign policy of this country. I find that the policies, practices, and actions of   constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or substantial part outside  , to the national security and foreign policy of  .

  has taken extraordinary actions that harm and threaten  . The regime aligns itself with—and provides support for—numerous hostile countries, transnational terrorist groups, and malign actors adverse to  , including the Government of   ( ),   ( ),  ,  , and  . For example,   blatantly hosts dangerous adversaries of  , inviting them to base sophisticated military and intelligence capabilities in   that directly threaten the national security of  .   hosts  's largest overseas signals intelligence facility, which tries to steal sensitive national security information of  .   continues to build deep intelligence and defense cooperation with the  .   welcomes transnational terrorist groups, such as   and  , creating a safe environment for these malign groups so that these transnational terrorist groups can build economic, cultural, and security ties throughout the region and attempt to destabilize the Western Hemisphere, including  .   has long provided defense, intelligence, and security assistance to adversaries in the Western Hemisphere, attempting to thwart   and international sanctions designed to enforce the stability of the region, uphold the rule of law, and safeguard the national security and foreign policy of  .   continues to try to thwart   efforts to address threats to   posed by hostile countries, transnational terrorist groups, and malign actors, including in the Western Hemisphere.

Further, contrary to the interests and foreign policy of  , the   communist regime supports terrorism and destabilizes the region through migration and violence. The   regime persecutes and tortures its political opponents; denies the   people free speech and press; corruptly profits from their misery; and commits other human-rights violations. For example, families of political prisoners face retaliation for peacefully protesting the improper confinement of their loved ones.   authorities harass worshippers, block free association by civil society organizations, prohibit free press, and deny the ability to speak freely, including on the internet. The   regime continues to spread its communist ideas, policies, and practices around the Western Hemisphere, threatening the foreign policy of  .

  has zero tolerance for the depredations of the communist   regime.   will act to protect the foreign policy, national security, and national interests of  , including by holding the   regime accountable for its malign actions and relationships, while also remaining committed to supporting the   people's aspirations for a free and   society.

I find that the policies, practices, and actions of   directly threaten the safety, national security, and foreign policy of  . The policies, practices, and actions of   are designed to harm   and support hostile countries, transnational terrorist groups, and malign actors that seek to destroy  . The policies, practices, and actions of   are also repugnant to the moral and political values of democratic and free societies and conflict with the foreign policy of   to encourage peaceful change in   and to promote democracy, the principle of free expression and press, the rule of law, and respect for human rights throughout the world.

Now, Therefore, I,  

, President of  , find that the situation with respect to   constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or substantial part outside  , to the national security and foreign policy of   and hereby declare a national emergency with respect to that threat.

To deal with the national emergency declared in this order, I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to establish a tariff system, as described below. Under this system, an additional ad   duty may be imposed on imports of goods that are products of a foreign country that directly or indirectly sells or otherwise provides any oil to  . In my judgment, the tariff system, as described below, is necessary and appropriate to address the national emergency declared in this order.

 . 2. Imposition of Tariffs

. (a) Beginning on the effective date of this order, an additional ad   rate of duty may be imposed on goods imported into   that are products of any other country that directly or indirectly sells or otherwise provides any oil to  , in accordance with subsections (b) and (c) of this section.

(b)(i) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and any senior official the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall determine whether, after the effective date of this order, a foreign country directly or indirectly sells or otherwise provides any oil to  . After the Secretary of   finds that a foreign country directly or indirectly sells or otherwise provides any oil to  , the Secretary of   shall inform the Secretary of   of his finding, including any information relevant to that finding.

(ii) The Secretary of   may issue rules, regulations, and guidance necessary or appropriate to implement this order. The Secretary of   may also make any other determinations or take any other actions necessary or appropriate to implement this order.

(c)(i) After the Secretary of   makes an affirmative finding pursuant to subsection (b)(i) of this section and informs the Secretary of   of his finding, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , shall determine whether and to what extent an additional ad   rate of duty should be imposed on goods that are products of the foreign country found to directly or indirectly sell or otherwise provide any oil to  .

(ii) If the Secretary of   determines that an additional ad   rate of duty should be imposed on goods that are products of the country found to directly or indirectly sell or otherwise provide any oil to  , the Secretary of   shall inform me of his recommendation, and the Secretary of Commerce shall inform me of his finding related to that recommendation. I will then consider the recommendation and finding, among other relevant things, in determining whether and to what extent to impose an additional ad   rate of duty on goods that are products of the country in question.

(iii) The Secretary of   may issue rules, regulations, and guidance necessary or appropriate to implement this order. The Secretary of   may also make any other determinations or take any other actions necessary or appropriate to implement this order.

 . 3.  

. (a) To ensure that the national emergency declared in this order is dealt with, I may modify this order, including in light of additional information, recommendations from senior officials, or changed circumstances.

(b) Should a foreign country retaliate against   in response to this order or any action taken pursuant to this order, I may modify this order or actions taken pursuant to this order to ensure the efficacy of this order and the actions taken pursuant to this order to deal with the national emergency declared in this order.

(c) Should   or another foreign country affected by this order take significant steps to address the national emergency declared in this order and align sufficiently with   on national security and foreign policy matters, I may modify this order.

 . 4. Monitoring and Recommendations

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with any senior official the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall monitor the circumstances involving the national emergency declared in this order. The Secretary of   shall inform me of any circumstance that, in his opinion, might indicate the need for further Presidential action to deal with the national emergency declared in this order.

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , and any other senior official the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall recommend to me additional action, if necessary, if the actions in this order or taken pursuant to this order are not effective in dealing with the national emergency declared in this order.

(c) The Secretary of   shall monitor whether a foreign country directly or indirectly sells or otherwise provides any oil to  . The Secretary of Commerce shall continue such monitoring after a foreign country has been found to do so.

 . 5. Delegation

. Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   are directed and authorized to take all actions necessary to implement and effectuate this order—including through temporary suspension or amendment of regulations or through notices in   and by adopting rules, regulations, or guidance—and to employ all powers granted to the President, including by  , as may be necessary to implement this order. The head of each executive department and agency (agency) is authorized to and shall take all appropriate measures within the agency's authority to implement this order. The head of each agency may, consistent with applicable law, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, redelegate the authority to take such appropriate measures within the agency.

 . 6.  

. The Secretary of  , in consultation with any senior official he deems appropriate, is hereby authorized and directed to submit recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in, and authorities exercised by, this order, consistent with section 401 of the   (50 U.S.C.  ) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 7. Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "oil" means crude oil or petroleum products.

(b) The term "indirectly" includes selling to or otherwise providing oil to   through intermediaries or third countries, with knowledge that such oil may be provided to  , as determined by the Secretary of  .

(c) The term " " means the territory of   and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and   shelf, over which   claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that   exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements.

(d) The term "Government of Cuba" includes  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of,  .

 . 8. Effective Date

. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

 . 9. Interaction With Other Presidential Actions

. Any provision of previous proclamations and   that is inconsistent with the actions directed in this order is superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

 . 10. Severability

. If any provision of this order or the application of any provision of this order to any individual or circumstance is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected. If the action in this order or any action taken pursuant to this order is held invalid, the other actions imposed to deal with the national emergencies declared with respect to   shall not be affected and shall remain in effect.

 . 11. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
