Section 1. Findings

. As Chief Executive and Commander in Chief, I find that the threat of attachment or the imposition of other judicial process against  , as defined in section 2 of this order, will materially harm the national security and foreign policy of  .

Specifically, the attachment or the imposition of other judicial process against   will substantially interfere with our critical efforts to ensure economic and political stability in  . The failure of these critical efforts would jeopardize major foreign policy objectives of  , including: ending the dangerous influx of illegal immigrants and the flood of illicit narcotics, which has resulted in the death of countless thousands of   citizens; protecting   interests against malign actors such as   and  ; and bringing peace, prosperity, and stability to the   people and to the Western Hemisphere more generally.

Accordingly, the preservation of   is of the utmost importance to  . I therefore find that the possibility of attachment or the imposition of judicial process against   constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  , which has its source in whole or substantial part outside  , and I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

 . 2. Definition

. For the purposes of this order, "Foreign Government Deposit Funds" means funds paid to or held by   in designated   of the   accounts or funds on behalf of   or its agencies or instrumentalities, including   and  ,  , that are derived from either the sale of natural resources from, or the sale of diluents to,   or its agencies or instrumentalities.

 . 3.  

. (a) Unless licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to this order, any attachment, judgment, decree,  , execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is prohibited, and shall be deemed null and void, with respect to  .

(b)   may be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in, except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.

(c) This order and actions taken pursuant to this order shall apply notwithstanding any previously issued Executive Order, and any action taken pursuant to such an order, to the extent such order or action blocks, regulates, or otherwise affects  . This order and actions taken pursuant to this order shall supersede any previously issued Executive Order, and any action taken pursuant to such an order, to the extent such order or action blocks, regulates, or otherwise affects  .

 . 4.  

. I hereby determine and find that:

(a) Ownership.   constitute property of   and do not constitute the property of any private party, including judgment creditors of   or its agencies or instrumentalities, or commercial actors that transacted or are transacting business with   or its agencies or instrumentalities.

(b) Custodial Nature of United States Possession.   will hold   solely in a custodial and governmental capacity, and not as a market participant.

(c) Absence of Commercial Use in  .  :

(i) have not been, and shall not be, used for any commercial activity in  ; and

(ii) shall be held pending sovereign disposition for public, governmental, or diplomatic purposes determined by the Secretary of  , on behalf of  .

(d)  . The retention and administration of   serve public sovereign purposes, including compliance with international obligations, the performance of government functions, and the maintenance of diplomatic and foreign policy objectives.

(e) No Waiver of Immunity. Neither the placement of   in a   of the   deposit account nor any related arrangement or activity constitutes an express or implied waiver of sovereign immunity from any attachment, judgment, decree,  , execution, garnishment, or other judicial process, or consent to the jurisdiction of any court for purposes of enforcing private claims against such funds.

(f)  . Any attachment, judgment, decree,  , execution, garnishment, or other judicial process against   would interfere with the conduct of the foreign relations of   and undermine principles of international comity.

 . 5. Treatment of Foreign Government Deposit Funds

. (a) In holding  , the Secretary of the   shall:

(i) designate such funds in a manner that clearly reflects their status as sovereign property of   held in custody by  , and not as the property of  ;

(ii) comply with instructions regarding disbursements or transfers of   as may be determined by the Secretary of  , and not permit such funds to be used for any other purpose; and

(iii) consult, as appropriate, with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of  .

(b) The Secretary of the   and the Attorney General are authorized and directed to assert, in any judicial or administrative proceeding, the sovereign immunity of   consistent with this order and applicable law.

 . 6. Administration

. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of  , is authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . The head of each executive department and agency (agency) of   shall take all appropriate measures within the agency's authority to implement this order.

(b) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 7. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
