Section 1

.

Purpose

.   is a host nation for the FIFA World Cup 2026, which will be the largest sporting event in history. This important event, taking place during the momentous occasion of the 250th anniversary of our country, presents an opportunity to showcase the  's pride and hospitality while promoting economic growth and tourism through sport. My Administration will support preparations through a coordinated Government effort.

 . 2

.

Establishing   on the FIFA World Cup 2026

. (a) There is hereby established   on the FIFA World Cup 2026 (Task Force).

(b) The President shall be the Chair of the Task Force, and the Vice President shall serve as Vice Chair.

(c) The   shall designate an Executive Director, who shall administer and execute the day-to-day operations of  , and who shall report to the   through the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Implementation. The Chair, the Vice Chair, or a member of   designated by the  , shall convene regular meetings of  , determine its agenda, and direct its work, consistent with this order. The Executive Director and the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Implementation shall assist in the performance of these duties. The   may designate any member of   to preside over meetings of  .

(d) In addition to the   and Vice Chair, the Task Force shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Attorney General;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Assistant to the President for  ;

(ix) the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff;

(x) the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and  ;

(xi) the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Legislative, Political and Public Affairs;

(xii) the Director of  ; and

(xiii) the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and offices that the   or the Vice Chair may, from time to time, designate or invite to participate.

(e) The Task Force shall coordinate with executive departments and agencies (agencies) to assist in the planning, organization, and execution of the events surrounding the     and the   FIFA World Cup. Agencies shall provide information and assistance useful and necessary to  .

(f) For administrative purposes, the Task Force shall be housed in  , which shall provide funding and administrative support for  , to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(g) Agencies within the Task Force shall each provide a report to   regarding their respective planning and activities with respect to the   FIFA World Cup. These reports shall be submitted to the Executive Director of   no later than June 1,  .

(h) The Task Force shall terminate on  , unless extended by the President.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
