Section 1

.

Purpose

. Commonsense approaches and investments by   and local governments across   infrastructure will enhance national security and create a more resilient Nation. Federal policy must rightly recognize that preparedness is most effectively owned and managed at the  , local, and even individual levels, supported by a competent, accessible, and efficient  . Citizens are the immediate beneficiaries of sound local decisions and investments designed to address risks, including cyber attacks, wildfires, hurricanes, and space weather. When States are empowered to make smart infrastructure choices, taxpayers benefit.

This order empowers  , local, and individual preparedness and injects common sense into infrastructure prioritization and strategic investments through risk-informed decisions that make our infrastructure, communities, and economy resilient to global and dynamic threats and hazards.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   that   and local governments and individuals play a more active and significant role in national resilience and preparedness, thereby saving   lives, securing   livelihoods, reducing taxpayer burdens through efficiency, and unleashing our collective prosperity. In addition, it is the policy of   that my   streamline its preparedness operations; update relevant Government policies to reduce complexity and better protect and serve  ; and enable   and local governments to better understand, plan for, and ultimately address the needs of their citizens.

 . 3

.

Updating Federal Policy to Save Lives and End the Subsidization of Mismanagement

. (a)  . Within   of the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and the heads of relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies), shall publish a National Resilience Strategy that articulates the priorities, means, and ways to advance the resilience of the Nation.   shall be reviewed and revised  , or as appropriate.

(b)  . Within   of the date of this order, the APNSA, in coordination with the Director of   and the heads of relevant agencies, shall review all critical infrastructure policies and recommend to the President the revisions, recissions, and replacements necessary to achieve a more resilient posture; shift from an all-hazards approach to a risk-informed approach; move beyond information sharing to action; and implement   described in subsection (a) of this section. For purposes of this order, critical infrastructure policies do not include any policies related to purported "misinformation," "disinformation," or "malinformation," nor so-called "cognitive infrastructure," which should be reevaluated consistent with the policy set forth in Executive Order   (Restoring Freedom of Speech and  ), through a separate process. The policies to be reviewed and recommended for modification, as appropriate, include:

(i) National Security Memorandum 16 of   (Strengthening the Security and Resilience of United States Food and Agriculture);

(ii) National Security Memorandum 22 of   (Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience);

(iii) Executive Order   of   ( 's  ); and

(iv) Executive Order   ( ).

(c) National Continuity Policy. Within   of the date of this order, the APNSA, in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies, shall review all national continuity policies and recommend to the President the revisions, recissions, and replacements necessary to modernize and streamline the approach to national continuity capabilities, reformulate the methodology and architecture necessary to achieve an enduring readiness posture, and implement   described in subsection (a) of this section. The policies to be reviewed and recommended for modification, as appropriate, include:

(i) Executive Order   (Assignment of National Security and Emergency Preparedness Communications Functions);

(ii) Executive Order   ( );

(iii) National Security Memorandum   (National Continuity Policy); and

(iv) Executive Order   (Partial Revocation of Executive Order  ).

(d) Preparedness and  . Within   of the date of this order, the APNSA, in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies and informed by the reports and findings of   established pursuant to Executive Order 14180 of   ( ), shall review all national preparedness and response policies and recommend to the President the revisions, recissions, and replacements necessary to reformulate the process and metrics for Federal responsibility, move away from an all-hazards approach, and implement   described in subsection (a) of this section. The policies to be reviewed and recommended for modification, as appropriate, include:

(i) Executive Order   of   (Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities);

(ii) Homeland Security Presidential Directive 5 of   ( );

(iii) Presidential Policy Directive 8 of   (National Preparedness);

(iv) Presidential Policy Directive 22 of   (National Special Security Events); and

(v) Presidential Policy Directive   ( ).

(e)  . Within   of the date of this order, the APNSA, in coordination with the Director of   and the heads of relevant agencies, shall coordinate the development of   that identifies, articulates, and quantifies natural and malign risks to our national infrastructure, related systems, and their users.

(i) The quantification produced by   shall be used to inform  , private sector investments,   investments, and Federal budget priorities.

(ii)   shall be reviewed and revised  , or as appropriate, to evolve with the dynamic risk landscape.

(f)  . The   organizes national preparedness and continuity through the bureaucratic and complicated lens of overlapping and overbroad "functions," which include:  , Primary Mission Essential Functions,  , Emergency Support Functions, Recovery Support Functions, and  . Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall propose changes to the policies outlining this framework and any implementing documents to ensure   and local governments and individuals have improved communications with   officials and a better understanding of the Federal role. This proposal shall be coordinated through the process established by   of   ( ), or any successor processes, before being submitted to the President through the APNSA.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
