Section 1

.

Purpose

. This order continues the reduction in the elements of the   bureaucracy that the President has determined are unnecessary.

 . 2

.

Reducing the Scope of the Federal Bureaucracy

.

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the non-statutory components and functions of the following governmental entities shall be eliminated to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, and such entities shall reduce the performance of their statutory functions and associated personnel to the minimum presence and function required by law:

(i) the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service;

(ii)   for Global Media;

(iii)   in  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ; and

(vii)  .

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the head of each governmental entity listed in subsection (a) of this section shall submit a report to the Director of   confirming full compliance with this order and explaining which components or functions of the governmental entity, if any, are statutorily required and to what extent.

(c) In reviewing budget requests submitted by the governmental entities listed in subsection (a) of this section, the Director of   or the head of any executive department or agency charged with reviewing grant requests by such entities shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law and except insofar as necessary to effectuate an expected termination, reject funding requests for such governmental entities to the extent they are inconsistent with this order.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
