Section 1

.

Purpose

. Deregulation is a critical priority for my Administration. We will foster prosperity by freeing   from the heavy burden of Federal regulations accumulated over  . Although the decision about which regulations to eliminate is sometimes complex, the administrative process of removing a regulation from the Code of Federal Regulations through a rulemaking should be simple. It is not.

  frequently takes   or, in some cases, even   to publish new regulatory actions. Such delay is unwarranted.   receives final documents that are fully executed by the relevant decisionmakers—all that remains is publication. Yet despite those delays, executive departments and agencies are charged $151–$174 per column of text to publish each rule in  . These inefficiencies inhibit my  's deregulatory agenda and waste taxpayer money.

 . 2

.

Increasing Efficiency in  . (a) The   of   ( ), acting through  , shall work with the Director of   to reduce publication delays to the greatest extent feasible, including by modernizing computer systems and eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy.

(b) Within   of this order, the  , acting through  , shall submit a report to the Director of   (OMB) reflecting average publication times for different categories of documents.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the  , acting through  , shall review the fee schedules for publication in  and, working with the Director of  , take steps to ensure that fees are based on the actual costs of publication and account for increased efficiencies achieved as a result of this order. The  , acting through  , shall promptly file a report with the Director of OMB calculating the percentage difference in fees between any proposed new fee schedule and the prior one.

(d) No later than August 22,  , the  , acting through  , shall submit a second report to the Director of OMB reflecting average publication times  , and  , for the same categories of documents on which   reported under subsection (b) of this section.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
