Section 1. Purpose

. This order sets in motion a process by which certain chapters or other subdivisions of the   shall be considered for designation as Foreign Terrorist Organizations, consistent with section 219 of the INA (8 U.S.C.  ) and specially designated global terrorists, consistent with   (50 U.S.C. 1702), and Executive Order   of   (Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions with Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism), as amended.

 , founded in   in  , has developed into a transnational network with chapters across the Middle East and beyond. Relevant here, its chapters in  ,  , and   engage in or facilitate and support violence and destabilization campaigns that harm their own regions,   citizens, and   interests. For example, in the aftermath of  , attack in  , the military wing of the   chapter of   joined  ,  , and   factions to launch multiple rocket attacks against both civilian and military targets within  . A senior leader of the   chapter of  , on  , called for violent attacks against   partners and interests, and   leaders have long provided material support to the militant wing of  . Such activities threaten the security of   civilians in the   and other parts of the Middle East, as well as the safety and stability of our regional partners.

 . 2. Policy

. It is the policy of   to cooperate with its regional partners to eliminate the capabilities and operations of   chapters designated as foreign terrorist organizations pursuant to section 3 of this order, deprive those chapters of resources, and thereby end any threat such chapters pose to   nationals or the national security of  .

 . 3. Implementation

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Attorney General and the Director of  , shall submit a joint report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , concerning the designation of any   chapters or other subdivisions, including those in  ,  , and  , as foreign terrorist organizations consistent with 8 U.S.C.  , and specially designated global terrorists consistent with 50 U.S.C. 1702 and Executive Order  .

(b) Within   of submitting the report required by subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the  , as applicable, shall take all appropriate action consistent with 8 U.S.C.   or 50 U.S.C. 1702 and Executive Order  , as applicable, with regard to the designation of any   chapters or other subdivisions described in section 1 of this order as foreign terrorist organizations and specially designated global terrorists.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
