Section 1. Purpose

. On  ,  , President   signed into law a bill establishing   to oversee the operation and maintenance of military and naval affairs. It was under this name that  , along with the later formed  , won the War of 1812, World War I, and World War II, inspiring awe and confidence in our  's military, and ensuring freedom and prosperity for all  . The Founders chose this name to signal our strength and resolve to the world. The name " ," more than the current " ," ensures peace through strength, as it demonstrates our ability and willingness to fight and win wars on behalf of our   at a moment's notice, not just to defend. This name sharpens the  's focus on our own national interest and our adversaries' focus on our willingness and availability to wage war to secure what is ours. I have therefore determined that this   should once again be known as   and the Secretary should be known as the Secretary of War.

Sec. 2. Implementation

. (a) The Secretary of   is authorized the use of this additional secondary title—the Secretary of War—and may be recognized by that title in official correspondence, public communications, ceremonial contexts, and non-statutory documents within the executive branch.

(b)   and     may be referred to as   and  , respectively, in the contexts described in subsection (a) of this section.

(c) The provisions of this section shall also apply, as appropriate, to subordinate officials within  , who may use corresponding secondary titles such as Deputy Secretary of   or Under Secretary of War in the contexts described in subsection (a) of this section.

(d) All executive departments and agencies shall recognize and accommodate the use of such secondary titles in internal and external communications, provided that the use of such titles does not create confusion with respect to legal, statutory, or international obligations.

(e) Statutory references to  , Secretary of  , and subordinate officers and components shall remain controlling until changed subsequently by the law.

(f) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of War shall submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , a notification for transmittal to the   of any office, executive department or agency, component, or command that begins using a secondary   designation.

(g) Within   of this order, the Secretary of War shall submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , a recommendation on the actions required to permanently change the name of   to  . This recommendation shall include the proposed legislative and executive actions necessary to accomplish this renaming.

 . 3. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
