Section 1.

Function of the Secretary of  .

The Secretary of   shall, through  , design and establish  .

 . 2.

Purpose of  .

  shall assist in the alleviation of serious community socioeconomic effects that result from major   base closures, realignments, and   contract-related adjustments, and the encroachment of the civilian community on the mission of military installations.

 . 3.

Functions of  .

  shall:

(a) Identify problems of  , regions, metropolitan areas, or communities that result from major   base closures, realignments, and   contract-related adjustments, and the encroachment of the civilian community on the mission of military installations and that require Federal assistance;

(b) Use and maintain a uniform socioeconomic impact analysis to justify the use of Federal economic adjustment resources, prior to particular realignments;

(c) Apply consistent policies, practices, and procedures in the administration of Federal programs that are used to assist  -affected  , regions, metropolitan areas, and communities;

(d) Identify and strengthen existing agency mechanisms to coordinate employment opportunities for displaced agency personnel;

(e) Identify and strengthen existing agency mechanisms to improve reemployment opportunities for dislocated Defense industry personnel;

(f) Assure timely consultation and cooperation with  , regional, metropolitan, and community officials concerning  -related impacts on Defense-affected communities' problems;

(g) Assure coordinated interagency and intergovernmental adjustment assistance concerning   impact problems;

(h)  , facilitate, and implement cost-effective strategies and action plans to coordinate interagency and intergovernmental economic adjustment efforts;

(i) Encourage effective Federal,  , regional, metropolitan, and community cooperation and concerted involvement of public interest groups and private sector organizations in   economic adjustment activities;

(j) Serve as a clearinghouse to exchange information among  ,  , regional, metropolitan, and community officials involved in the resolution of community economic adjustment problems. Such information may include, for example, previous studies, technical information, and sources of public and private financing;

(k) Assist in the diversification of local economies to lessen dependence on   activities;

(l) Encourage and facilitate private sector interim use of lands and buildings to generate jobs as military activities diminish; and,

(m) Develop ways to streamline property disposal procedures to enable  -impacted communities to acquire base property to generate jobs as military activities diminish.

 . 4.

Economic Adjustment Committee.

(a)

Membership.

  ("Committee") shall be composed of the following individuals, or a designated principal deputy of these individuals, and such other individuals from the executive branch as the President may designate. Such individuals shall include the:

(1) Secretary of  ;

(2) Attorney General;

(3) Secretary of  ;

(4) Secretary of  ;

(5) Secretary of  ;

(6) Secretary of  ;

(7) Secretary of  ;

(8) Secretary of  ;

(9) Secretary of the  ;

(10) Secretary of  ;

(11) Secretary of  ;

(12) Secretary of  ;

(13) Secretary of the  ;

(14) Secretary of  ;

(15) Chairman,  ;

(16) Director of  ;

(17) Director of  ;

(18) Director of  ;

(19) Administrator of  ;

(20) Director of  ;

(21) Administrator of  ;

(22) Administrator of  ; and,

(23) Postmaster General.

(b)

Chairman.

 , and   shall rotate, on a yearly basis, as chairman of the  .

(c)

Vice Chairman.

The Assistant Secretary of   who oversees   shall serve as vice chairman of  . The vice chairman shall chair the   in the absence of both the chairman and the chairman's designee and may also preside over meetings of designated representatives of the concerned executive agencies.

(d)

Executive Director.

The head of   shall provide all necessary policy and administrative support for the   and shall be responsible for coordinating the application of   to   activities.

(e)

Duties.

The   shall:

(1) Advise, assist, and support  ;

(2) Develop procedures for ensuring that  , regional, and community officials and representatives of organized labor in those  , municipalities, localities, or labor organizations that are substantially and seriously affected by changes in   expenditures, realignments or closures, or cancellation or curtailment of major   contracts, are notified of available Federal economic adjustment programs; and,

(3) Report   to the President and then to the   on the work of   during  .

 . 5.

Responsibilities of Executive Agencies.

(a) The head of each agency represented on the   shall designate an agency representative to:

(1) Serve as a liaison with the Secretary of  's economic adjustment staff;

(2) Coordinate agency support and participation in economic adjustment assistance projects; and,

(3) Assist in resolving  -related impacts on Defense-affected communities.

(b) All executive agencies shall:

(1) Support, to the extent permitted by law, the economic adjustment assistance activities of the Secretary of  . Such support may include the use and application of personnel, technical expertise, legal authorities, and available financial resources. This support may be used, to the extent permitted by law, to provide a coordinated Federal response to the needs of individual  , regions, municipalities, and communities adversely affected by necessary   changes;

(2) Afford priority consideration to requests from  -affected communities for Federal technical assistance, financial resources, excess or surplus property, or other requirements, that are part of a comprehensive plan used by the  .

 . 6.

 .

This order shall not be interpreted to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, its agents, or any person.

 . 7.

Construction.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.

(b) This order shall be effective immediately and shall supersede Executive Order No.  .
