Section 1.

Establishment.

(a) There is established     ("Commission"). The   shall be composed of up to eight members appointed by the President.

(b) The President shall appoint a Chairman and Co-chairman from among the members of the  . The Chairman shall appoint an Executive Director.

 . 2.

Functions.

(a) The Commission shall:

-- examine the current condition of urban families;

-- consider how existing government policies and programs support or weaken the urban family structure;

-- evaluate the potential for integrating the delivery of government services in ways to strengthen urban families;

-- identify  , local, and Federal programs that have been successful in preserving and strengthening urban families;

-- analyze ways to improve private/nonprofit efforts to preserve and strengthen urban families; and

-- provide appropriate recommendations for government policies and programs and for actions by other institutions to strengthen families living in urban areas.

(b) The   shall make its report to the President on or before  .

 . 3.

Administration.

(a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707 and 7(d)). The Executive Director shall be compensated at a rate of pay not to exceed the maximum allowable under section 7(d)(1)(A) of  , as amended.

(c)   shall provide the   with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of its functions. Funds for the operation of the   shall be provided by  .

(d) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guideline issued by  .

(e) The   shall terminate   after submitting its report.
