Section 1. National Contingency Plan, Area Committees, and Area Contingency Plans. (a) Section 1 of Executive Order No.   of January 23,  , is amended to read as follows:

"Section 1. National Contingency Plan. (a)(1)   ("the  "), shall provide for   ("the  ") composed of representatives of appropriate Federal departments and agencies for national planning and coordination of preparedness and response actions, and   as the regional counterparts to the   for planning and coordination of regional preparedness and response actions.

"(2) The following agencies (in addition to other appropriate agencies) shall provide representatives to   to carry out their responsibilities under the  :  ,  ,    ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

"(3) Except for periods of activation because of response action, the representative of   (" ") shall be the chairman, and the representative of   shall be the vice chairman, of the   and these agencies' representatives shall be co-chairs of   ("the RRTs"). When the   or an   is activated for a response action, the   representative shall be the chairman when the release or threatened release or discharge or threatened discharge occurs in the inland zone, and   representative shall be the chairman when the release or threatened release or discharge or threatened discharge occurs in the coastal zone, unless otherwise agreed upon by the   and   representatives (inland and coastal zones are defined in the  ).

"(4) The RRTs may include representatives from   governments, local governments (as agreed upon by the  ), and   tribal governments. Subject to the functions and authorities delegated to Executive departments and agencies in other sections of this order, the   shall provide policy and program direction to the RRTs.

"(b) (1) The responsibility for the revision of the   and all the other functions vested in the President by Sections 105 (a), (b), (c), and (g), 125, and 301(f) of the Act, by Section 311(d)(1) of  , and by Section 4201(c) of the Oil Pollution Act of   is delegated to   ("the Administrator").

"(2) The function vested in the President by Section 118(p) of   of   (Pub. L. 99 - 499) ("SARA") is delegated to the Administrator.

"(c) In accord with Section 107(f)(2)(A) of the Act, Section 311(f)(5) of  , as amended (33 U.S.C. 1321(f)(5)), and Section 1006(b) (1) and (2) of the Oil Pollution Act of  , the following shall be among those designated in the   as   trustees for natural resources:

(1) Secretary of  ;

(2) Secretary of the  ;

(3) Secretary of  ;

(4) Secretary of  ;

(5) Secretary of  .

In the event of a spill, the above named Federal trustees for natural resources shall designate one trustee to act as  , the duties of which shall be defined in the regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 1006(e)(1) of OPA. If there are natural resource trustees other than those designated above which are acting in the event of a spill, those other trustees may join with the   trustees to name a Lead Administrative Trustee which shall exercise the duties defined in the regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 1006(e)(1) of OPA.

"(d) Revisions to the   shall be made in consultation with members of the   prior to publication for notice and comment.

"(e) All revisions to the  , whether in proposed or final form, shall be subject to review and approval by the Director of   ("OMB")."

"(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(4) of  , and Section 4202(b)(1) of  , respecting the designation of  , the appointment of   members, the requiring of information to be included in Area Contingency Plans, and the review and approval of Area Contingency Plans are delegated to   ("Administrator") for the inland zone and the Secretary of the   in which   is operating for the coastal zone (inland and coastal zones are defined in the  ).

 . 2.  . (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(1)(A) of  , respecting the establishment of methods and procedures for the removal of discharged oil and hazardous substances, and by Section 311(j)(1)(B) of   respecting the establishment of criteria for the development and implementation of local and regional oil and hazardous substance removal contingency plans, are delegated to the Administrator for the inland zone and the Secretary of the   in which   is operating for the coastal zone.

(b)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(1)(C) of  , respecting the establishment of procedures, methods, and equipment and other requirements for equipment to prevent and to contain discharges of oil and hazardous substances from non-transportation-related onshore facilities, are delegated to the Administrator.

(2) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(1)(C) of  , respecting the establishment of procedures, methods, and equipment and other requirements for equipment to prevent and to contain discharges of oil and hazardous substances from vessels and transportation-related onshore facilities and deepwater ports subject to the Deepwater Ports Act of   (" "), are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(3) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(1)(C) of  , respecting the establishment of procedures, methods, and equipment and other requirements for equipment to prevent and to contain discharges of oil and hazardous substances from offshore facilities, including associated pipelines, other than deepwater ports subject to the  , are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(c) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(1)(D) of  , respecting the inspection of vessels carrying cargoes of oil and hazardous substances and the inspection of such cargoes, are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating.

(d)(1) The functions vested in the President by  ) of   and Section 4202(b)(4) of  , respecting the issuance of regulations requiring the owners or operators of non-transportation-related onshore facilities to prepare and submit response plans, the approval of means to ensure the availability of private personnel and equipment, the review and approval of such response plans, and the authorization of non-transportation-related onshore facilities to operate without approved response plans, are delegated to the Administrator.

(2) The functions vested in the President by  ) of   and Section 4202(b)(4) of  , respecting the issuance of regulations requiring the owners or operators of tank vessels, transportation-related onshore facilities and deepwater ports subject to the  , to prepare and submit response plans, the approval of means to ensure the availability of private personnel and equipment, the review and approval of such response plans, and the authorization of tank vessels, transportation-related onshore facilities and deepwater ports subject to the   to operate without approved response plans, are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(3) The functions vested in the President by  ) of   and Section 4202(b)(4) of  , respecting the issuance of regulations requiring the owners or operators of offshore facilities, including associated pipelines, other than deepwater ports subject to the  , to prepare and submit response plans, the approval of means to ensure the availability of private personnel and equipment, the review and approval of such response plans, and the authorization of offshore facilities, including associated pipelines, other than deepwater ports subject to the  , to operate without approved response plans, are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(e)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(6)(B) of  , respecting the requirements for periodic inspections of containment booms and equipment used to remove discharges at non-transportation-related onshore facilities, are delegated to the Administrator.

(2) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(6)(A) of  , respecting the requirements for periodic inspections of containment booms and equipment used to remove discharges on vessels, and at transportation-related onshore facilities and deepwater ports subject to the  , are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(3) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(6)(A) of  , respecting the requirements for periodic inspections of containment booms and equipment used to remove discharges at offshore facilities, including associated pipelines, other than deepwater ports subject to the  , are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(f) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(6)(A) of  , respecting requirements for vessels to carry appropriate removal equipment, are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating.

(g)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(7) of  , respecting periodic drills of removal capability under relevant response plans for onshore and offshore facilities located in the inland zone, and the publishing of   reports on those drills, are delegated to the Administrator.

(2) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j)(7) of  , respecting periodic drills of removal capability under relevant response plans for tank vessels, and for onshore and offshore facilities located in the coastal zone, and the publishing of   reports on those drills, are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating.

(h) No provision of Section 2 of this order, including, but not limited to, any delegation or assignment of any function hereunder, shall in any way affect, or be construed or interpreted to affect the authority of any   or agency, or the head of any   or agency under any provision of law other than Section 311(j) of FWPCA or Section 4202(b)(4) of OPA.

(i) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(j) of FWPCA or Section 4202(b)(4) of   which have been delegated or assigned by Section 2 of this order may be redelegated to the head of any Executive department or agency with his or her consent.

 . 3. Removal. The functions vested in the President by Section 311(c) of   and Section 1011 of OPA, respecting an effective and immediate removal or arrangement for removal of a discharge and mitigation or prevention of a substantial threat of a discharge of oil or a hazardous substance, the direction and monitoring of all Federal,   and private actions, the removal and destruction of a vessel, the issuance of directions, consulting with affected trustees, and removal completion determinations, are delegated to the Administrator for the inland zone and to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating for the coastal zone.

 . 4.  . (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 1004(d) of  , respecting the establishment of limits of liability, with respect to classes or categories of non-transportation-related onshore facilities, the reporting to   on the desirability of adjusting limits of liability with respect to non-transportation-related onshore facilities, and the adjustment of limits of liability to reflect significant increases in the Consumer Price Index with respect to non-transportation-related onshore facilities, are delegated to the Administrator, acting in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Attorney General.

(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 1004(d) of  , respecting the establishment of limits of liability, with respect to classes or categories of transportation-related onshore facilities, the reporting to   on the desirability of adjusting limits of liability, with respect to vessels or transportation-related onshore facilities and deepwater ports subject to the  , and the adjustment of limits of liability to reflect significant increases in the Consumer Price Index with respect to vessels or transportation-related onshore facilities and deepwater ports subject to the  , are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(c) The functions vested in the President by Section 1004(d) of  , respecting the reporting to   on the desirability of adjusting limits of liability with respect to offshore facilities, including associated pipelines, other than deepwater ports subject to the  , and the adjustment of limits of liability to reflect significant increases in the Consumer Price Index with respect to offshore facilities, including associated pipelines, other than deepwater ports subject to the  , are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

 . 5.  . (a)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 1016(e) of  , respecting (in the case of offshore facilities other than deepwater ports) the issuance of regulations concerning financial responsibility, the determination of acceptable methods of financial responsibility, and the specification of necessary or unacceptable terms, conditions, or defenses, are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(2) The functions vested in the President by Section 1016(e) of  , respecting (in the case of deepwater ports) the issuance of regulations concerning financial responsibility, the determination of acceptable methods of financial responsibility, and the specification of necessary or unacceptable terms, conditions, or defenses, are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(b)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 4303 of OPA, respecting (in cases involving vessels) the assessment of civil penalties, the compromising, modification or remission, with or without condition, and the referral for collection of such imposed penalties, and requests to the Attorney General to secure necessary judicial relief, are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating.

(2) The functions vested in the President by Section 4303 of OPA, respecting (in cases involving offshore facilities other than deepwater ports) the assessment of civil penalties, the compromising, modification or remission, with or without condition, and the referral for collection of such imposed penalties, and requests to the Attorney General to secure necessary judicial relief, are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(3) The functions vested in the President by Section 4303 of OPA, respecting (in cases involving deepwater ports) the assessment of civil penalties, the compromising, modification or remission, with or without condition, and the referral for collection of such imposed penalties, and requests to the Attorney General to secure necessary judicial relief, are delegated to the Secretary of  .

 . 6. Enforcement. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(m)(1) of  , respecting the enforcement of Section 311 with respect to vessels, are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating.

(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(e) of  , respecting determinations of imminent and substantial threat, requesting the Attorney General to secure judicial relief, and other action including issuing administrative orders, are delegated to the Administrator for the inland zone and to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating for the coastal zone.

 . 7. Management of   and Claims. (a)(1)(A) The functions vested in the President by Section 1012(a)(1), (3), and (4) of   respecting payment of removal costs and claims and determining consistency with   ( ) are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating.

(B) The functions vested in the President by Section 6002(b) of the   respecting making amounts, not to exceed $50,000,000 and subject to normal budget controls, in  , available from the Fund (i) to carry out Section 311(c) of  , and (ii) to initiate the assessment of natural resources damages required under Section 1006 of OPA are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating. Such Secretary shall make amounts available from the Fund to initiate the assessment of natural resources damages exclusively to the   trustees designated in the  . Such Federal trustees shall allocate such amounts among all trustees required to assess natural resources damages under Section 1006 of OPA.

(2) The functions vested in the President by Section 1012(a)(2) of  , respecting the payment of costs and determining consistency with the  , are delegated to the   trustees designated in the  .

(3) The functions vested in the President by Section 1012(a)(5) of  , respecting the payment of costs and expenses of departments and agencies having responsibility for the implementation, administration, and enforcement of the Oil Pollution Act of   and subsections (b), (c), (d), (j) and (l) of Section 311 of FWPCA, are delegated to each head of such department and agency.

(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 1012(c) of  , respecting designation of Federal officials who may obligate money, are delegated to each head of the departments and agencies to whom functions have been delegated under section 7(a) of this order for the purpose of carrying out such functions.

(c)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 1012 (d) and (e) of  , respecting the obligation of   on the request of a Governor or pursuant to an agreement with a  , entrance into agreements with  , agreement upon terms and conditions, and the promulgation of regulations concerning such obligation and entrance into such agreement, are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating, in consultation with the Administrator.

(2)The functions vested in the President by Section 1013(e) of  , respecting the promulgation and amendment of regulations for the presentation, filing, processing, settlement, and adjudication of claims under   against  , are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating, in consultation with the Attorney General.

(3) The functions vested in the President by Section 1012(a) of  , respecting the payment of costs, damages, and claims, delegated herein to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating, include,  , the authority to process, settle, and administratively adjudicate such costs, damages, and claims, regardless of amount.

(d)(1)   is designated the "appropriate agency" for the purpose of receiving the notice of discharge of oil or hazardous substances required by Section 311(b)(5) of  , and the Secretary of the   in which   is operating is authorized to issue regulations implementing this designation.

(2) The functions vested in the President by Section 1014 of OPA, respecting designation of sources of discharges or threats, notification to responsible parties, promulgation of regulations respecting advertisements, the advertisement of designation, and notification of claims procedures, are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating.

 . 8. Miscellaneous. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(b) (3) and (4) of  , as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of  , respecting the determination of quantities of oil and any hazardous substances the discharge of which may be harmful to the public health or welfare or the environment and the determinations of quantities, time, locations, circumstances, or conditions, which are not harmful, are delegated to the Administrator.

(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 311(d)(2)(G) of  , respecting schedules of dispersant, chemical, and other spill mitigating devices or substances, are delegated to the Administrator.

(c) The functions vested in the President by Section 1006(b) (3) and (4) of   respecting the receipt of designations of   and   tribe trustees for natural resources are delegated to the Administrator.

(d) The function vested in the President by Section 3004 of OPA, with respect to encouraging the development of an international inventory of equipment and personnel, is delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating, in consultation with the Secretary of  .

(e) The functions vested in the President by Section 4113 of OPA, respecting a study on the use of liners or other secondary means of containment for onshore facilities, and the implementation of the recommendations of the study, are delegated to the Administrator.

(f) The function vested in the President by Section 5002(c)(2)(D) of  , respecting the designating of an employee of   who shall represent   on   and  , is delegated to the Secretary of  .

(g) The functions vested in the President by Section 5002(o) of  , respecting the   certification of alternative voluntary advisory groups, are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(h) The function vested in the President by Section 7001(a)(3) of  , respecting the appointment of Federal agencies to membership on  , is delegated to the Secretary of  .

(i) Executive Order No. 11735 of  , Executive Order No.   of  , Executive Order No.   of   and the memorandum of  , delegating certain authorities of the President under the Oil Pollution Act of   are revoked.

 . 9. Consultation. Authorities and functions delegated or assigned by this order shall be exercised subject to consultation with the Secretaries of departments and the heads of agencies with statutory responsibilities which may be significantly affected, including, but not limited to,  .

 . 10. Litigation. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this order, any representation pursuant to or under this order in any judicial proceedings shall be by or through the Attorney General. The conduct and control of all litigation arising under the Oil Pollution Act of   shall be the responsibility of the Attorney General.

(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this order, the authority under the Oil Pollution Act of   to require the Attorney General to commence litigation is retained by the President.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this order, the Secretaries of   Interior, Agriculture, and/or the Administrator of   may request that the Attorney General commence litigation under the Oil Pollution Act of  .

(d) The Attorney General, in his discretion, is authorized to require that, with respect to a particular oil spill, an agency refrain from taking administrative enforcement action without first consulting with the Attorney General.
