113 HRES 602 IH: Recognizing the 96th anniversary of the founding of the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan.
U.S. House of Representatives
2014-05-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 602
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 28, 2014
Mr. Stockman
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the 96th anniversary of the founding of the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan.
Whereas, on May 28, 1918, the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan was proclaimed the world’s first
secular Muslim parliamentary democratic republic;
Whereas the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan was granted diplomatic recognition by the United
States and other democratic nations;
Whereas Azerbaijan granted universal suffrage in 1918, making it the first majority Muslim country
to give women the right to vote;
Whereas after the collapse of the Soviet Union the United States established full diplomatic ties
with the Republic of Azerbaijan in 1992;
Whereas successive U.S. administrations have expressed support for Azerbaijani development of
energy resources in the Caspian Sea region, including construction of the
landmark Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline and the Baku-Tbilisi-Erzerum gas
pipeline that are main arteries for delivering Caspian energy resources to
global markets;
Whereas completion of the Southern Gas Corridor will increase European energy security by
increasing the amount of natural gas flowing from the Caspian Sea to
American allies in Europe;
Whereas in a recent letter to Azerbaijan’s President, Secretary of State John Kerry wrote,
Azerbaijan is becoming a new reliable member of world energy resources and helps ensure Europe’s
energy security. The implementation of the Southern Gas Corridor after a
long hard work, besides benefitting the consortium’s numerous partners and
neighbors, will strengthen the independence of Azerbaijan
;
Whereas the Republic of Azerbaijan is an important strategic partner of the United States, and
Azerbaijani troops serve shoulder to shoulder with U.S. soldiers in
Afghanistan, as they previously did in Iraq and Kosovo;
Whereas Azerbaijan and the U.S. cooperate in countering terrorism, nuclear proliferation, and
narcotics trafficking;
Whereas Azerbaijan maintains close, friendly ties with Israel—America’s vital ally in the Middle
East—and provides 40 percent of Israel’s oil consumption;
Whereas Azerbaijan is home to Muslim, Christian, and Jewish communities and has been praised for
its religious tolerance by the European Parliament;
Whereas Azerbaijan’s Jewish community has resided in Azerbaijan for 2,500 years without
persecution; and
Whereas Azerbaijan supports peace and stability in the Caspian Sea region:
Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
extends warm congratulations and best wishes to the people of Azerbaijan as they celebrate Republic
Day on the 96th anniversary of the founding of the Democratic Republic of
Azerbaijan;
(2)
notes the important role that Azerbaijan plays in ensuring the energy security of Israel and other
American allies in Europe; and
(3)
expresses support for continued cooperation between the United States and Azerbaijan on energy,
security, and other matters.
