113 HRES 676 IH: Providing for authority to initiate litigation for actions by the President or other executive branch officials inconsistent with their duties under the Constitution of the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2014-07-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 676
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 22, 2014
Mr. Sessions
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
, and in addition to the Committee on
House Administration
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such
provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Providing for authority to initiate litigation for actions by the President or other executive
branch officials inconsistent with their duties under the Constitution of
the United States.
That the Speaker is authorized to initiate or intervene in one or more civil actions on behalf of
the House of Representatives in a Federal court of competent jurisdiction
to seek any appropriate relief regarding the failure of the President, the
head of any department or agency, or any other officer or employee of the
executive branch, to act in a manner consistent with that official’s
duties under the Constitution and laws of the United States with respect
to implementation of any provision of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, title I or subtitle B of title II of the Health Care
and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, including any amendment made by
such provision, or any other related provision of law, including a failure
to implement any such provision.
2.
The Speaker shall notify the House of Representatives of a decision to initiate or intervene in any
civil action pursuant to this resolution.
3.
The Office of the General Counsel of the House of Representatives, at the direction of the Speaker,
shall represent the House in any civil action initiated, or in which the
House intervenes, pursuant to this resolution, and may employ the services
of outside counsel and other experts for this purpose.
