Whereas space remains at the frontier of science, as expressed in 1962 by President John F. Kennedy at Rice University in Houston, Texas;
Whereas space exploration has been integral to the global technological leadership of the United States and to inspiring a STEM workforce for more than 60 years;
Whereas astronauts of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration have bravely given their lives in pursuit of exploration;
Whereas, on February 1, 2003, the United States and the global space community joined together in mourning the loss of Space Shuttle
Columbia
and the 7 astronauts of the STS–107 mission, who perished on their return home;
Whereas United States Air Force Colonel Rick D. Husband, Mission Commander, of Amarillo, Texas, died in service to his nation;
Whereas United States Navy Commander William
Willie
C. McCool, Pilot, of San Diego, California, died in service to his nation;
Whereas United States Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Michael P. Anderson, Payload Commander and Mission Specialist, of Spokane, Washington, died in service to his nation;
Whereas United States Navy Captain David M. Brown M.D., Mission Specialist, of Arlington, Virginia, died in service to his nation;
Whereas United States Navy Captain Laurel B. Clark, Mission Specialist, of Racine, Wisconsin, died in service to her nation;
Whereas Kalpana Chawla, Ph.D., Mission Specialist, of Karnal, India, became a United States citizen and the first woman of Indian origin in space and died in service her nation;
Whereas Israeli Air Force Colonel Ilan Ramon, Payload Specialist, of Tel Aviv, Israel, became the first Israeli in space and died in service to his nation;
Whereas the people of the United States will not forget the sacrifice of the crew of STS–107 aboard Space Shuttle
Columbia
, as well as others who perished in the exploration of space; and
Whereas National Aeronautics and Space Administration astronauts continue to make tremendous personal sacrifices and risk their lives in service to their nation and to all of humanity: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
remembers and honors the 7 astronauts who lost their lives on February 1, 2003, on Space Shuttle
Columbia
;
(2)
expresses deep condolences and gratitude to the families, friends, and colleagues of—
(A)
United States Air Force Colonel Rick D. Husband;
(B)
United States Navy Commander William
Willie
C. McCool;
(C)
United States Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Michael P. Anderson;
(D)
United States Navy Captain David M. Brown;
(E)
United States Navy Captain Laurel B. Clark;
(F)
Dr. Kalpana Chawla; and
(G)
Israeli Air Force Colonel Ilan Ramon;
(3)
commends all those who assisted in the debris recovery and accident investigation process, including helicopter pilot Jules
Buzz
F. Mier Jr. and Texas Forest Service Aviation Specialist Charles G. Krenek, who both died during debris search, and dedicated staff across the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; and
(4)
reaffirms the commitment of the United States Government to create a culture of safety and innovation within all agencies and companies pursuing the exploration of space, including in the pursuit of the United States' return to the Moon and first visit to Mars through the Artemis missions and Moon to Mars efforts.
