Whereas, in the case of
United States v. Miller
, No. 2:23-cr-00221, pending in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, the prosecution has requested the production of documents from the offices of Senators Jacky Rosen and Catherine Cortez Masto and also has requested testimony from employees in those offices;
Whereas, pursuant to sections 703(a) and 704(a)(2) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 2 U.S.C. §§ 288b(a) and 288c(a)(2), the Senate may direct its counsel to represent current and former employees of the Senate with respect to any subpoena, order, or request for testimony or documents relating to their official responsibilities;
Whereas, by the privileges of the Senate of the United States and Rule XI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, no evidence under the control or in the possession of the Senate may, by the judicial or administrative process, be taken from such control or possession but by permission of the Senate; and
Whereas, when it appears that evidence under the control or in the possession of the Senate may promote the administration of justice, the Senate will take such action as will promote the ends of justice consistent with the privileges of the Senate: Now, therefore, be it
That the office of Senator Jacky Rosen is authorized to produce documents and that Dara Cohen, John Fossum, and Carlos Lara, employees in that office, are authorized to testify in the case of
United States v. Miller
, except concerning matters for which a privilege should be asserted.
2.
That the office of Senator Catherine Cortez Masto is authorized to produce documents and that employees of that office from whom relevant evidence may be needed are authorized to testify in the case of
United States v. Miller
, except concerning matters for which a privilege should be asserted.
3.
The Senate Legal Counsel is authorized to represent the employees of Senator Rosen's and Senator Cortez Masto's offices in connection with the production of evidence and testimony authorized in sections one and two of this resolution.
