1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Veterans’ Access to Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Act of 2014
.
2.
Calculation of rate of veterans rehabilitated to the point of employability
(a)
In general
Chapter 31
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
section:
3123.
Calculation of rate of veterans rehabilitated to the point of employability
To calculate the rate of veterans whom the Secretary determines are rehabilitated to the point of
employability under this chapter during a fiscal year, the Secretary shall
divide—
(1)
the number of veterans who participated in vocational rehabilitation programs under this chapter
during such fiscal year whom the Secretary determines to have been
rehabilitated to the point of employability; by
(2)
the sum of—
(A)
the number of veterans who participated in such programs during such fiscal year (regardless of
whether such a veteran first participated in such programs during a
previous fiscal year); and
(B)
the number of veterans who were entitled to participate in such programs during such fiscal year
but did not complete a program.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding after the item relating
to section 3122 the following new item:
3123. Calculation of rate of veterans rehabilitated to the point of employability.
.
3.
Approval of courses of education and training for purposes of the vocational rehabilitation program
of the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
In general
Section 3104(b)
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
sentence:
To the maximum extent practicable, a course of education or training may be pursued by a veteran as
part of a rehabilitation program under this chapter only if the course is
approved for purposes of chapter 30 or 33 of this title. The Secretary may
waive the requirement under the preceding sentence to the extent the
Secretary determines appropriate.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to a course of education or training
pursued by a veteran who first begins a program of rehabilitation under
chapter 31
of title 38, United States Code, on or after the date that is
one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
4.
Eligibility of certain veterans enrolled in vocational rehabilitation programs for specially
adapted housing provided by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Section 2101(b)(2)
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraph:
(D)
The disability is a disability for which the veteran is eligible for a rehabilitation program under
chapter 31 of this title and is referred for assistance under this section
pursuant to section 2107 of this title.
.
5.
Authority to prioritize vocational rehabilitation services based on need
Section 3104
of title 38, United States Code, as amended by section 3, is further amended by adding
at the end the following new subsection:
(c)
(1)
The Secretary shall have the authority to administer this chapter by prioritizing the provision of
services under this chapter based on need, as determined by the Secretary.
In evaluating need for purposes of this subsection, the Secretary shall
consider disability ratings, the severity of employment handicaps,
qualification for a program of independent living, income, and any other
factor the Secretary determines appropriate.
(2)
Not later than 90 days before making any changes to the prioritization of the provision of services
under this chapter as authorized under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
submit to Congress a plan describing such changes.
.
6.
Modification of definition of
serious employment handicap
Paragraph (7) of
section 3101
of title 38, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(7)
The term
serious employment handicap
means a significant impairment, resulting from the service-connected disability, that is directly
related to the veteran’s ability to prepare for, obtain, or retain
employment consistent with such veteran’s abilities, aptitudes, and
interests.
.
