1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Refinery Regulatory Reduction Act of 2013
.
2.
Delay in effective date of certain EPA rules
(a)
In general
A rule described in subsection (b) shall not take effect until—
(1)
a report on the rule is submitted in accordance with subsection (c); and
(2)
a law is enacted setting the rule’s effective date.
(b)
Covered rules
Subsection (a) applies to a rule of the Environmental Protection Agency that is finalized on or after the date of enactment of this Act and—
(1)
requires a reduction in the sulfur content of gasoline;
(2)
establishes or revises a standard of performance under section 111 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7411
) that is applicable to the emission of any air pollutant from a petroleum refinery; or
(3)
concerns, takes action relating to, or takes into consideration the emission of a greenhouse gas from a petroleum refinery.
(c)
Report
(1)
Submission
Upon finalizing any rule described in subsection (b), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, and the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, shall submit a report on the rule to the Congress.
(2)
Contents
A report required by paragraph (1) shall include each of the following:
(A)
Estimates of the impacts of the rule on—
(i)
the global economic competitiveness of businesses and industries in the United States in international markets, particularly focusing on energy-intensive and trade-sensitive industries;
(ii)
national, State, and regional energy prices;
(iii)
national, State, and regional fuel prices;
(iv)
agricultural and food prices; and
(v)
national, State, and regional employment, including secondary impacts associated with increased energy and fuel prices or facility closures.
(B)
Estimates of the cumulative costs and benefits of the rule.
(C)
An assessment of the cumulative impacts of the rule on—
(i)
consumers;
(ii)
small businesses;
(iii)
regional economies, including local and industry-specific labor markets;
(iv)
agriculture; and
(v)
oil refinery production.
