1.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Association
The term
Association
means the Mullins and Sturgill Cemetery Association of Pound, Virginia.
(2)
Map
The term
map
means the map titled
Mullins and Sturgill Cemetery
dated March 1, 2013.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
2.
Conveyance
(a)
Conveyance required
Upon payment by the Association of the consideration under subsection (b) and the costs under subsection (d), the Secretary shall, subject to valid existing rights, convey to the Association all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of National Forest System land in the Jefferson National Forest in Wise County, Virginia, consisting of approximately 0.70 acres and containing the Mullins and Sturgill Cemetery and an easement to provide access to the parcel, as generally depicted on the map.
(b)
Consideration
(1)
Fair market value
As consideration for the land conveyed under subsection (a), the Association shall pay to the Secretary cash in an amount equal to the market value of the land, as determined by an appraisal approved by the Secretary and conducted in conformity with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1716
).
(2)
Deposit
The consideration received by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be deposited into the general fund of the Treasury of the United States for the purposes of deficit reduction.
(c)
Description of property
The exact acreage and legal description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
(d)
Costs
The Association shall pay to the Secretary at closing the reasonable costs of the survey, the appraisal, and any administrative and environmental analyses required by law.
(e)
Additional terms and conditions
The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
