1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Personal Financial Information Protection Act
.
2.
Unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable covered information
(a)
Liability for Certain Acts
(1)
In general
It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the United States—
(A)
willfully to make an unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable covered information; or
(B)
to conspire to commit a violation of subparagraph (A).
(2)
Penalty
(A)
In general
Any violation of paragraph (1) shall be subject to a penalty of not more than the greatest of—
(i)
the penalty specified in the law setting forth the offense which covers a violation of paragraph (1), or
(ii)
the penalty set forth in subparagraph (B).
(B)
Uniform penalty
The penalty set forth in this subparagraph is a felony punishable upon conviction by—
(i)
a fine in any amount not exceeding $100,000 for each such violation and imprisonment of not more than 7 years,
(ii)
the costs of prosecution, and
(iii)
dismissal from office or discharge from employment.
(C)
Forfeiture of annuities and retired pay
A violation of paragraph (1) shall be treated as an offense to which sections
8312
and
8432(g)(5)
of title 5, United States Code, apply.
(b)
Definitions
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Officer of the United States
The term
officer of the United States
means an officer appointed pursuant to
section 2104(a)(1)(C)
of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Employee of the United States
The term
employee of the United States
means an employee, as defined by
section 2105
of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
Personally identifiable covered information
The term
personally identifiable covered information
means any information contained in a financial record (as defined in section 1101 of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (
12 U.S.C. 3401
), if such information contains the name, social security number, street address, telephone number, electronic mail address, or any other personally identifiable information concerning the consumer to which such financial record relates.
3.
Private right of action
(a)
In general
Any person who violates section 2 of this Act or who willfully aids, abets, counsels, induces, or procures the commission of a violation of section 2 of this Act shall be liable to the person whose personally identifiable covered information was disclosed in violation of section 2 of this Act—
(1)
in the amount of $100,000 for each such violation, and
(2)
for costs of prosecution and attorney fees.
(b)
Jurisdiction; statute of limitations; venue; process
The United States district courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction of actions brought under this section. Any such action shall be brought not later than two years after the date the cause of action arises. Any action brought under subsection (a) of this section may be brought in any judicial district wherein the defendant is found, resides, or transacts business, or in the judicial district wherein any act or transaction constituting the violation occurs. Process in such action may be served in any judicial district of which the defendant is an inhabitant or wherever the defendant may be found.
