1.
Emergency appropriation of funds
During a Governmentwide shutdown, the Secretary of the Treasury shall make available, out of any amounts in the general fund of the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such amounts as are necessary to provide for the following:
(1)
Amounts to provide pay and allowances to Members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, including reserve components thereof, who perform active service during the funding gap.
(2)
At the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, amounts to provide pay and allowances to such civilian personnel of the Department of Defense who are providing support to the members of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (1) as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(3)
At the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, amounts to provide pay and allowances to such personnel of contractors of the Department of Defense who are providing direct support to the members of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (1) as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(4)
Amounts necessary to carry out the authority of the Department of the Treasury provided in
section 3123
of title 31, United States Code, to pay with legal tender the principal and interest on debt held by the public.
(5)
Such amounts as the President certifies to the Congress are necessary to carry out vital national security priorities.
(6)
Amounts necessary to make payments under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act.
(7)
Amounts necessary to make payments under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.
(8)
Such amounts as the President certifies to the Congress are necessary to carry out Government functions necessary for protecting public health and public safety.
2.
Emergency funds to ensure Social Security benefits are provided
During a Governmentwide shutdown, the Managing Trustee of the Trust Funds (as such term is used in section 201(g)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act) shall make available to the Commissioner of Social Security, out of any or all of the Trust Funds, such amounts as the Commissioner determines to be necessary to provide for the uninterrupted payment of monthly insurance benefits under title II of such Act and payment of benefits under the Supplemental Security Income Program under title XVI of such Act.
3.
Prohibition on Congressional and Presidential pay during Governmentwide shutdown
(a)
In general
Members of Congress and the President shall not receive basic pay during a Governmentwide shutdown.
(b)
Retroactive pay prohibited
No pay forfeited in accordance with subsection (a) may be paid retroactively.
4.
Governmentwide shutdown defined
In this Act, the term
Governmentwide shutdown
means any portion of a fiscal year during which none of the appropriation bills for the fiscal year have become law and an Act or joint resolution making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year is not in effect.
