1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ansel Adams Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
In recent years, the Federal Government has enacted regulations to prohibit or restrict photography
in National Parks, public spaces, and of government buildings, law
enforcement officers, and other government personnel carrying out their
duties.
(2)
In recent years, photographers on Federal lands and spaces have been threatened with seizure and
forfeiture of photographic equipment and memory cards, and have been
arrested or threatened with arrest for merely recording what the eye can
see from public spaces.
(3)
Even in the absence of laws or regulations, Federal law enforcement officers, other government
personnel, and private contractors have been instructed to prohibit
photography from public spaces, and threatened photographers with arrest
or seizure of photographic equipment.
(4)
Arresting photographers, seizing photographic equipment, and requirements to obtain permits, pay
fees, or buy insurance policies are abridgments of freedom of speech and
of the press.
(5)
The First Amendment of the United States Constitution states,
Congress shall make no law … abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press.
.
(6)
Still and motion photographs are speech.
(7)
The photography by Ansel Adams and other famous photographers helped bring home to Americans the
beauty and fragility of our natural resources.
(8)
Ansel Adams’ photographs helped build public support to make Yosemite into a National Park.
(9)
Future
Ansel Adams
must not have their paths blocked, regulated and made more expensive with fees and fines, or be
threatened with arrest and seizure of their equipment.
3.
Restoration of first amendment rights to photographers
(a)
In general
It is contrary to the public policy of the United States to prohibit or restrict photography in
public spaces, whether for private, news media, or commercial use.
(b)
Should a Federal agency seek to restrict photography of its installations or personnel, it shall
obtain a court order that outlines the national security or other reasons
for the restriction. Such court order shall allow restrictions of
photography when such photography may lead to the endangerment of public
safety or national security. Nothing in this Act shall restrict Federal
agencies from taking lawful steps to ascertain whether or not photography
may consist of reconnaissance for the purpose of endangerment of public
safety or national security or for other unlawful activity. Nothing in
this Act shall be construed to repeal, invalidate, or supersede section
795 of title 18, United States Code.
(c)
Prohibition on fees, permits, or insurance
No Federal Government agency shall require fees, permits or insurance as a condition to take still
or moving images on Federal lands, National Parks and Forests, and public
spaces, whether for private, media, or commercial use.
(d)
Prohibition on the seizure and forfeiture of photographic equipment
Federal law enforcement officers or private contractors shall not seize any photographic equipment
or their contents or memory cards or film, and shall not order a
photographer to erase the contents of a camera or memory card or film.
4.
Definition
Photography
means any form or method of capturing and recording or transmitting still or moving images.
