1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small Business Loan Simplification Act of 2014
.
2.
Electronic signatures and records
(a)
In general
Section 4 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 633
) is amended by the adding the following new
subsection:
(g)
Electronic signatures and records
In accordance with the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (15 U.S.C. 7001 et
seq.), the Administrator shall—
(1)
amend regulations and Standard Operating Procedures to authorize the Administration and
participants in lending programs under subsections (a), (j), (l), and (m)
of section 7 of the Small Business Act, and under title III, title IV, and
title V of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, to use electronic
signatures and records, as defined by section 106 of the Electronic
Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, for such programs; and
(2)
accept electronic signatures and records, as defined by section 106 of the Electronic Signatures in
Global and National Commerce Act, associated with the management and
closing processes under section 7 of the Small Business Act and Small
Business Administration Standard Operating Procedure 50 10, Standard
Operating Procedure 50 57, Standard Operating Procedure 50 50, and in
Standard Operating Procedure 10 06 (as in effect on the date of enactment
of this paragraph and any successor rule or successor Standard Operating
Procedure).
.
(b)
Preservation of State Law
Nothing in this Act may be construed to preempt applicable State law except as provided in the
Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.) with respect to such State law.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made in subsection (a) of this section shall take effect on the date that is 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act. To ensure timely implementation
of the requirements of this section, any rules made during the 60-day
period to carry out this section are not subject to the requirements under
subsection (b) or (c) of
section 553
of title 5, United States Code.
