1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Legitimate Use of Medicinal Marijuana Act
or the
LUMMA
.
2.
Scheduling of marijuana; prescriptions
(a)
Schedule
Marijuana is moved from schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act to schedule II of such Act.
(b)
Prescription
(1)
In general
In a State in which marijuana may be prescribed by a physician for medical use under applicable
State law, no provision of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et
seq.) or of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et
seq.) shall prohibit or otherwise restrict—
(A)
the prescription of marijuana by a physician for medical use;
(B)
an individual who is an authorized patient from obtaining, possessing, transporting within the
individual’s State, or using marijuana for that individual’s medical use;
(C)
an individual authorized under State law to obtain, possess, transport within their State, or
manufacture marijuana, from obtaining, possessing, transporting within
that State, or manufacturing marijuana pursuant to that authorization; or
(D)
a pharmacy or other entity authorized under State law to distribute medical marijuana to an
authorized patient, from obtaining or possessing marijuana for that
purpose, or from distributing marijuana to an authorized patient for
medical use.
(2)
Production
No provision of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.
) or of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.
) shall prohibit or otherwise
restrict an entity authorized by a State, in which marijuana may be
prescribed by a physician for medical use, for the purpose of producing
marijuana for prescription by a physician for medical use, from producing,
processing, or distributing marijuana for such purpose.
3.
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
the term
authorized patient
means an individual using marijuana in accordance with a prescription of marijuana by a physician
for medical use;
(2)
the term
physician
means a practitioner of medicine, who—
(A)
graduated from a college of medicine or osteopathy; and
(B)
is licensed by the appropriate State board;
(3)
the term
prescription
means an instruction written by a medical physician in accordance with applicable State law that
authorizes a patient to be issued with a medicine or treatment; and
(4)
the term
State
includes the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and any other territory or possession of the
United States.
4.
Relation of Act to certain prohibitions relating to smoking
This Act does not affect any Federal, State, or local law regulating or prohibiting smoking in
public.
