1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Contracting Data and Bundling Accountability Act of 2014
.
2.
Plan for improving data on bundled and consolidated contracts
Section 15 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644
) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
(s)
Data quality improvement plan
(1)
In general
Not later than the first day of fiscal year 2016, the Administrator of the Small Business
Administration, in consultation with the Small Business Procurement
Advisory Council, the Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement
Policy, and the Administrator of the General Services Administration shall
develop a plan to improve the quality of data reported on bundled and
consolidated contracts in the Federal procurement data system.
(2)
Plan requirements
The plan shall—
(A)
describe the roles and responsibilities of the Administrator of the Small Business Administration,
the Directors of the Offices of Small and Disadvantaged Business
Utilization, the Small Business Procurement Advisory Council, the
Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, the
Administrator of the General Services Administration, the senior
procurement executives, and Chief Acquisition Officers in implementing the
plan described in paragraph (1) and contributing to the annual report
required by subsection (p)(4);
(B)
make necessary changes to policies and procedures on proper identification and mitigation of
contract bundling and consolidation, and to training procedures of
relevant personnel on proper identification and mitigation of contract
bundling and consolidation;
(C)
establish consequences for failure to properly identify contracts as bundled or consolidated;
(D)
establish requirements for periodic and statistically valid data verification and validation; and
(E)
assign clear data verification responsibilities.
(3)
Implementation
Not later than the first day of fiscal year 2017, the Administrator of the Small Business
Administration shall implement the plan described in this subsection.
(4)
Certification
The Administrator shall annually provide to the Committee on Small Business of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship
of the Senate certification of the accuracy and completeness of data
reported on bundled and consolidated contracts.
(5)
GAO study and report
(A)
Study
Not later than the first day of fiscal year 2018, the Comptroller General of the United States
shall initiate a study on the effectiveness of the plan described in this
subsection that shall assess whether contracts were accurately labeled as
bundled or consolidated.
(B)
Contracts evaluated
For the purposes of conducting the study described in subparagraph (A), the Comptroller General of
the United States—
(i)
shall evaluate, for work in each of sectors 23, 33, 54, and 56 (as defined by the North American
Industry Classification System), not fewer than 100 contracts in each
sector;
(ii)
shall evaluate only those contracts—
(I)
awarded by an agency listed in
section 901(b)
of title 31, United States Code; and
(II)
that have a Base and Exercised Options Value, an Action Obligation, or a Base and All Options
Value; and
(iii)
shall not evaluate contracts that have used any set aside authority.
(C)
Report
Not later than 12 months after initiating the study required by subparagraph (A), the Comptroller
General of the United States shall report to the Committee on Small
Business of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate on the results from such study
and, if warranted, any recommendations on how to improve the quality of
data reported on bundled and consolidated contracts.
(6)
Definitions
In this subsection the following definitions shall apply:
(A)
Chief Acquisition Officer; senior procurement executive
The terms
Chief Acquisition Officer
and
senior procurement executive
have the meanings given such terms in section 44 of this Act.
(B)
Federal procurement data system definitions
The terms
Base and Exercised Options Value
,
Action Obligation
,
Base and All Options Value
, and
set aside authority
have the meanings given such terms by the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy in the
Federal procurement data system on October 1, 2013, or subsequent
equivalent terms.
.
