1.
Short title;
findings
(a)
Short
title
This Act may be cited
as the
Balanced Budget Accountability
Act
.
(b)
Findings
Congress
finds the following:
(1)
The Federal debt exceeds $16 trillion,
continues to grow rapidly, and is larger than the size of the United States
economy.
(2)
The Federal budget
has shown an annual deficit in 45 of the last 50 years.
(3)
Deficits and the
Federal debt threaten to shatter confidence in the Nation’s economy, suppress
job creation and economic growth, and leave future generations of Americans
with a lower standard of living and fewer opportunities.
(4)
It is the duty of
Members of Congress to develop and implement policies, including balancing the
Federal budget, that encourage robust job creation and economic growth in the
United States.
(5)
Members of
Congress should be held accountable for failing to pass annual budgets that
result in a balanced budget.
2.
Requiring
adoption of budget resolution providing for balanced budgets
(a)
Adoption of
budget resolution
Each House
of Congress shall adopt a concurrent resolution on the budget for a fiscal year
which provides that, for each fiscal year for which a budget is provided under
the resolution (beginning not later than with the budget for fiscal year 2023),
total outlays do not exceed total receipts.
(b)
Certification by
Congressional Budget Office
Upon the adoption by a House of
Congress of a concurrent resolution on the budget for a fiscal year, the
Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall transmit to the Speaker of
the House of Representatives or the President pro Tempore of the Senate (as the
case may be) a certification as to whether or not that House of Congress has
met the requirements of subsection (a) with respect to the resolution.
(c)
Effective
date
This section shall apply with respect to the concurrent
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2015 and each succeeding fiscal
year.
3.
Effect of failure
to adopt resolution
(a)
Rule for fiscal
year 2015
(1)
Holding salaries
in escrow
If the Director of
the Congressional Budget Office (hereafter referred to as the
Director
) does not certify that a House of Congress has met the
requirements of section 2(a) with respect to fiscal year 2015 prior to April
16, 2014, during the period described in paragraph (2) the payroll
administrator of that House of Congress shall deposit in an escrow account all
payments otherwise required to be made during such period for the compensation
of Members of Congress who serve in that House of Congress, and shall release
such payments to such Members only upon the expiration of such period.
(2)
Period
described
With respect to a House of Congress, the period
described in this paragraph is the period which begins on April 16, 2014, and
ends on the earlier of—
(A)
the day on which
the Director certifies that the House of Congress has met the requirements of
section 2(a) with respect to fiscal year 2015; or
(B)
the last day of
the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
(3)
Withholding and
remittance of amounts from payments held in escrow
The payroll
administrator shall provide for the same withholding and remittance with
respect to a payment deposited in an escrow account under paragraph (1) that
would apply to the payment if the payment were not subject to paragraph (1).
(4)
Release of
amounts at end of the congress
In order to ensure that this
subsection is carried out in a manner that shall not vary the compensation of
Senators or Representatives in violation of the twenty-seventh article of
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, the payroll administrator
of a House of Congress shall release for payments to Members of that House of
Congress any amounts remaining in any escrow account under this section on the
last day of the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
(5)
Role of
secretary of the treasury
The Secretary of the Treasury shall
provide the payroll administrators of the Houses of Congress with such
assistance as may be necessary to enable the payroll administrators to carry
out this subsection.
(6)
Payroll
administrator defined
In this subsection, the
payroll
administrator
of a House of Congress means—
(A)
in the case of the House of
Representatives, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of
Representatives, or an employee of the Office of the Chief Administrative
Officer who is designated by the Chief Administrative Officer to carry out this
section; and
(B)
in the case of the
Senate, the Secretary of the Senate, or an employee of the Office of the
Secretary of the Senate who is designated by the Secretary to carry out this
section.
(b)
Rule for fiscal
year 2016 and subsequent fiscal years
If the Director of the Congressional Budget
Office does not certify that a House of Congress has met the requirements of
section 2(a) with respect to a fiscal year prior to the April 16 which
immediately precedes the first day of the fiscal year, during pay periods which
occur in the same calendar year after that date each Member of that House shall
be paid at an annual rate of pay equal to $1.
(c)
Definition
In
this section, the term
Member
includes a Delegate or Resident
Commissioner to the Congress.
