1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transparent Airfares Act of 2014
.
2.
Advertisements and solicitations for passenger air transportation
(a)
Full fare advertising
Section 41712
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Full fare advertising
(1)
In general
It shall not be an unfair or deceptive practice under subsection (a) for a covered entity to state
in an advertisement or solicitation for passenger air transportation the
base airfare for the air transportation if the covered entity clearly and
separately discloses—
(A)
the government-imposed taxes and fees associated with the air transportation; and
(B)
the total cost of the air transportation.
(2)
Form of disclosure
(A)
In general
For purposes of paragraph (1), the information described in paragraphs (1)(A) and (1)(B) shall be
disclosed in the advertisement or solicitation in a manner that clearly
presents the information to the consumer.
(B)
Internet advertisements and solicitations
For purposes of paragraph (1), with respect to an advertisement or solicitation for passenger air
transportation that appears on an Internet Web site, the information
described in paragraphs (1)(A) and (1)(B) may be disclosed through a link
or pop-up, as such terms may be defined by the Secretary, that displays
the information in a manner that is easily accessible and viewable by the
consumer.
(3)
Definitions
In this subsection, the following definitions apply:
(A)
Base airfare
The term
base airfare
means the cost of passenger air transportation, excluding government-imposed taxes and fees.
(B)
Covered entity
The term
covered entity
means an air carrier, including an indirect air carrier, foreign carrier, ticket agent, or other
person offering to sell tickets for passenger air transportation or a tour
or tour component that must be purchased with air transportation.
.
(b)
Limitation on statutory construction
Nothing in the amendment made by subsection (a) may be construed to affect any obligation of a
person that sells air transportation to disclose the total cost of the air
transportation, including government-imposed taxes and fees, prior to
purchase of the air transportation.
(c)
Regulations
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue final
regulations to carry out the amendment made by subsection (a).
(d)
Effective date
This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall take effect on the earlier of—
(1)
the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (c); and
(2)
the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
