1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Energy Regulatory Public Protection
Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds that:
(1)
The Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission is not adequately informing property owners and local
officials on the certificate application approval process.
(2)
The current
certificate application approval process at the Commission does not include
adequate State and local participation.
(3)
The current certificate application
approval process at the Commission does not provide adequate protections for
local environmental resources.
(4)
An office of
public advocate is necessary to properly represent the interests of property
owners and other affected parties during the certificate application approval
process, and to properly inform property owners and other parties of their
rights during the process, and to provide proper guidance to State and local
officials during the process.
3.
Establishment and
duties
(a)
Establishment
and duties
There is hereby
established within the Department of Justice an office to be known as the
Office of Public Advocate
. The office shall represent the
interests of members of the general public affected by regulatory matters
before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, other Commission-related
matters before (1) other Federal regulatory agencies, or (2) any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(b)
Specific
duties
The specific duties of the office are as follows:
(1)
To receive and
assess comments from all interested parties with respect to project
applications before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. For purposes of
this Act, the term
interested parties
includes but shall not be
limited to, individuals, municipalities, counties, States, or any other
for-profit or non-profit entity affected by any proposed project for which an
application has been filed with the Commission.
(2)
To submit all such
relevant and pertinent comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
together with its findings and recommendations, regarding the outcome, terms,
and conditions of an application for approval.
(3)
To review and
assess applicant compliance with orders of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission and seek full compliance of such orders through the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, or a court competent jurisdiction, where the applicant
fails to comply and such noncompliance is harmful to the health, safety, and
welfare of affected parties.
(4)
Within its sole
discretion, undertake appeal of any Federal Energy Regulatory Commission order
it deems appropriate where the order is harmful to the health, safety, or
welfare of affected parties.
(5)
Submit an annual
report to the Attorney General, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and
Congress regarding its actions and activities in the prior year, together with
any recommendations for regulatory or statutory changes to more effectively
achieve the goals, purposes, and functions of the office and the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission.
