1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Airport Security Enhancement Act of 2014
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Assistant Secretary
The term
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security (Transportation Security) of the Department of
Homeland Security.
(2)
Administration
The term
Administration
means the Transportation Security Administration.
3.
Security incident response at airports
(a)
In general
The Assistant Secretary shall, in consultation with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, conduct outreach to all airports in the United States
at which the Administration performs, or oversees the implementation and
performance of, security measures, and provide technical assistance as
necessary, to verify such airports have in place individualized working
plans for responding to security incidents inside the perimeter of the
airport, including active shooters, acts of terrorism, and incidents that
target passenger-screening checkpoints.
(b)
Types of plans
Such plans may include, but may not be limited to, the following:
(1)
A strategy for evacuating and providing care to persons inside the perimeter of the airport, with
consideration given to the needs of persons with disabilities.
(2)
A plan for establishing a unified command, including identification of staging areas for
non-airport-specific law enforcement and fire response.
(3)
A schedule for regular testing of communications equipment used to receive emergency calls.
(4)
An evaluation of how emergency calls placed by persons inside the perimeter of the airport will
reach airport police in an expeditious manner.
(5)
A practiced method and plan to communicate with travelers and all other persons inside the
perimeter of the airport.
(6)
To the extent practicable, a projected maximum timeframe for law enforcement response.
(7)
A schedule of joint exercises and training to be conducted by the airport, the Administration,
other stakeholders such as airport and airline tenants, and any relevant
law enforcement, airport police, fire, and medical personnel.
(8)
A schedule for producing after-action joint exercise reports to identify and determine how to
improve security incident response capabilities.
(c)
Report to congress
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall
report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate on the findings from its outreach to airports under
subsection (a), including an analysis of the level of preparedness such
airports have to respond to security incidents, including active shooters,
acts of terrorism, and incidents that target passenger-screening
checkpoints.
4.
Disseminating information on best practices
The Assistant Secretary shall—
(1)
identify best practices that exist across airports for security incident planning, management, and
training; and
(2)
establish a mechanism through which to share such best practices with other airport operators
nationwide.
5.
Certification
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the
Assistant Secretary shall certify in writing to the Committee on Homeland
Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate that all screening personnel
have participated in practical training exercises for active shooter
scenarios.
6.
Reimbursable agreements
Not later than 90 days after the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall provide to
the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate an
analysis of how the Administration can use cost savings achieved through
efficiencies to increase over the next 5 fiscal years the funding
available for checkpoint screening law enforcement support reimbursable
agreements.
7.
No additional authorization of appropriations
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act, and this Act shall be
carried out using amounts otherwise available for such purpose.
