1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Conditioning Economic Assistance and
Support to Egypt Act
or
CEASE Act
.
2.
Limitation on
United States economic assistance and opposition to World Bank and
International Monetary Fund assistance to the Government of Egypt
(a)
United States
economic assistance
No loan,
credit guarantee, insurance, financing, or other assistance under part I of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.
; relating to economic
assistance) or under the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (
12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.
)
may be provided to the Government of Egypt unless the President certifies to
Congress that the Government of Egypt has met the conditions described in
subsection (c).
(b)
World Bank
assistance
The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the
United States Executive Director at the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose any
assistance to the Government of Egypt unless the President certifies to
Congress that the Government of Egypt has met the conditions described in
subsection (c).
(c)
International
Monetary Fund assistance
The Secretary of the Treasury shall
instruct the United States Executive Director at the International Monetary
Fund to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose any loan
agreement for the Government of Egypt unless the President certifies to
Congress that the Government of Egypt has met the conditions described in
subsection (c).
(d)
Conditions
described
The conditions referred to in subsections (a), (b), and
(c) are the following:
(1)
The Government of Egypt has adopted and
implemented legal reforms to protect the political, economic, and religious
freedoms and human rights of the citizens and residents of Egypt.
(2)
The Government of
Egypt is not acting to restrict the political, economic, or religious freedoms
and human rights of the citizens and residents of Egypt.
(3)
The Government of
Egypt is continuing to demonstrate a commitment to free and fair elections and
is not taking any steps to interfere with or undermine the credibility of such
elections.
(4)
The Government of
Egypt is abiding by and implementing all measures of the agreements set out in
the 1979 Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty, including establishing full diplomatic
relations through the exchange of ambassadors.
(5)
The Government of
Egypt is taking all necessary action to eliminate smuggling networks and to
detect and destroy tunnels between Egypt and the Gaza Strip.
(6)
The Government of
Egypt is taking all necessary action to combat terrorism in the Sinai.
(7)
The Government of
Egypt in consultation with the United States Department of Defense has produced
an analysis of Egypt’s current security needs, and the analysis has been shared
with Congress.
(8)
The Government of
Egypt has lifted restrictions in law and practice on the work and funding of
Egyptian and international nongovernmental organizations, comprising those in
the human rights and democracy fields.
