1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Repairing Our Aging Roads Act
.
2.
Transportation Bonds and Trust Funds
(a)
Authority To issue Transportation Bonds
Section 3102
of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
(f)
Transportation Bonds
(1)
In general
The Secretary is authorized to issue bonds under this section, to be known as
Transportation Bonds
. Transportation Bonds shall be issued for each of the 50 States and shall be separately identified
with respect to each State.
(2)
Limitation
The aggregate amount of Transportation Bonds issued with respect to each State shall not exceed
$2,000,000,000.
(3)
Form
Except as provided in paragraph (3), the bonds authorized by paragraph (1) shall be in such form
and denominations, and shall be subject to such terms and conditions of
issue, conversion, redemption, maturation, payment, and rate of interest
as the Secretary may prescribe.
(4)
Maximum rate of interest
The rate of interest on any bond authorized by paragraph (1) shall not exceed the rate of interest
which is 0.25 percentage points less than the rate of interest which would
apply with respect to an otherwise substantially identical bond authorized
under subsection (a).
.
(b)
Transportation Trust Funds
(1)
Establishment of Trust funds
There is established in the Treasury of the United States 50 separate trust funds, consisting of
such amounts as may be appropriated, credited, or transferred to each such
trust fund as provided in this section or other provision of law. Such
trust funds shall be established with respect to each of the 50 States and
each shall be known as the
State Transportation Trust Fund
(where the name of the corresponding State is substituted for
State
). For purposes of this subsection, any reference to
each State Transportation Trust Fund
shall be treated as a reference to each of the 50 trust funds established under this paragraph.
(2)
Transfers to trust funds
There are hereby appropriated to each State Transportation Trust Fund amounts equivalent to all
revenues derived from the sale and issuance of Transportation Bonds issued
under
section 3102
of title 31, United States Code, with respect to the
corresponding State.
(3)
Expenditures from trust funds
Amounts in each State Transportation Trust Fund shall be available, without need of further
appropriation, for monthly disbursement to the corresponding State with
respect to such Trust Fund. Such monthly disbursements shall be used by
the corresponding State only for purposes of making expenditures to
construct or improve transportation infrastructure in the corresponding
State.
(c)
Prevention of State participation in Transportation Bonds program
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Treasury shall not issue any Transportation Bond under section 3102(f) of
title 31, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), to any State or
political subdivision thereof.
(2)
Denial of State benefit from indirect acquisitions
Appropriations to any State Transportation Trust Fund under subsection (b)(2) shall be reduced by
the amount of any revenues derived from the sale or issuance of any
Transportation Bond to any person if such bond was acquired by such person
with funds provided directly or indirectly by any State or political
subdivision thereof.
3.
Offsetting reduction in discretionary spending
(a)
Calculation
On the last day of the first quarter during which Transportation Bonds are issued under section
3102(f) of title 31, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)), and
on the last day of each quarter thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall calculate the dollar amount of bonds issued during any such quarter.
(b)
Rescission
On the first day of the quarter immediately following any quarter with respect to which a
calculation is made under subsection (a), there is hereby rescinded an
amount equal to the calculated dollar amount of—
(1)
the budget authority provided for any discretionary account in any appropriation Act for the fiscal
year in which such first day occurs; and
(2)
the budget authority provided in any advance appropriation for any discretionary account in any
prior year appropriation Act.
(c)
Proportionate application
Any rescission made by subsection (b) shall be applied proportionately—
(1)
to each discretionary account and each item of budget authority described in such subsection; and
(2)
within each such account and item, to each program, project, and activity (with programs,
projects, and activities as delineated in the appropriation Act or
accompanying reports for the relevant fiscal year covering such account or
item, or for accounts and items not included in appropriation Acts, as
delineated in the most recently submitted President's budget).
