1.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
On October 12, 1919, Doris Miller was born in Waco, Texas.
(2)
On September 16, 1939, Miller enlisted in the United States Navy as mess attendant, third class at
Naval Recruiting Station, Dallas, Texas, to serve for a period of six
years.
(3)
On February 16, 1941, Miller received a change of rating to mess attendant, second class.
(4)
On June 1, 1942, Miller received a change of rating to mess attendant, first class.
(5)
On June 1, 1943, Miller received a change of rating, to cook, third class.
(6)
On November 25, 1944, Miller was presumed dead by the Secretary of the Navy a year and a day after
being carried as missing in action since November 24, 1943, while serving
aboard USS Liscome Bay when that vessel was torpedoed and sunk in the
Pacific Ocean.
(7)
Miller was awarded the Navy Cross Medal, Purple Heart Medal, American Defense Service Medal,
Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, and World War II Victory Medal.
(8)
Miller’s citation for the Navy Cross said
for distinguished devotion to duty, extraordinary courage and disregard for his own personal safety
during the attack on the Fleet in Pearl Harbor, Territory of Hawaii, by
Japanese forces on December 7, 1941. While at the side of his Captain on
the bridge, Miller, despite enemy strafing and bombing and in the face of
a serious fire, assisted in moving his Captain, who had been mortally
wounded, to a place of greater safety, and later manned and operated a
machine gun directed at enemy Japanese attacking aircraft until ordered to
leave the bridge.
.
(9)
On June 20, 1973, the USS Miller (FF–1091), a Knox-class frigate, was named in honor of Doris
Miller.
2.
Name of Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Waco, Texas
The Department of Veterans Affairs medical center in Waco, Texas, shall after the date of the
enactment of this Act be known and designated as the
Doris Miller Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center
. Any reference to such medical center in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other
paper of the United States shall be considered to be a reference to the
Doris Miller Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
