1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Long-Term Studies of Comprehensive Outcomes and Returns for the Economy Act
(
Long-Term SCORE Act
).
2.
Findings and Purpose
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that 133 million Americans live with at
least one chronic condition.
(2)
More than three of every four health care dollars spent in the United States derive from the care
of chronic medical conditions.
(3)
Such conditions include diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer, obesity, arthritis, and
Alzheimers.
(4)
Reports from the Trust for America’s Health, the Campaign to End Obesity, and other organizations
demonstrate that Federal policies which lead to reductions in the
prevalence of one or more chronic disease may save United States taxpayers
as much as $611 billion over the next 20 years, and more in years beyond
that time window.
(5)
The Congressional Budget Office, which estimates the cost of Federal policies, typically provides
Congress with budgetary impact analyses for a five- or ten-year period.
(6)
Longer-term budgetary impacts fall beyond the traditional Congressional Budget Office budget window
and therefore are not captured in Congressional determinations of policies
that reflect strategic investments in chronic disease prevention and
treatment, and similar long-term policies.
(7)
The Congressional Budget Office has produced some long-term budget analysis, assessing the
budgetary impact of certain programs for a period of as much as 75 years.
(8)
The Congressional Budget Office presently lacks adequate resources to conduct more regular
long-term economic analyses.
(9)
Congress and taxpayers will benefit from having such analyses more regularly available to steward
Federal dollars into the most effective policies and programs,
particularly those that will generate long-term budgetary savings.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to require that the Congressional Budget Office prepare long-term
scoring estimates for reported bills and joint resolutions that could have
significant economic and fiscal effects outside of the normal scoring
periods.
3.
Establishment of Assistant Director for Long-Term Budget Scoring
Paragraph (1) of section 201(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 is amended by inserting
(A)
after
(1)
and by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(B)
There is established within the Office a long-term budget scoring division which shall be headed by
an assistant director who shall report directly to the Director.
.
4.
Long-term cost analyses of legislation by CBO
Section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 is amended by inserting
(a)
Cost estimates
.—
after
sec.
402
.
and by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
Long-Term cost estimates
Whenever the Director of the Congressional Budget Office prepares an analysis of the costs of a
bill or resolution under subsection (a), and upon the request of any
Member of the House of Representatives or the Senate, the Director shall
prepare and submit to such committee the information requested under
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a), except that such
information shall be for, if practicable, at least each of the next four
ten fiscal-year periods beginning with the first fiscal year after the
last fiscal year for which an analysis was prepared under subsection (a).
.
5.
Authorization of appropriations for long-term cost estimating
Section 201(g) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 is amended by striking the second sentence
and inserting the following new sentence:
In addition to such sums as may otherwise be appropriated to the Office, there are authorized to be
appropriated to the Office for each fiscal year $5,000,000 to enable it to
prepare the long-term cost estimates required by section 402(b).
.
