1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Forest Access in Rural Communities Act
.
2.
Conditions on Forest Service access travel management actions for units of the National Forest
System derived from the public domain
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Access travel management action
The term
access travel management action
means any Forest Service action regarding a unit of the National Forest System that—
(A)
will, or can reasonably be expected to, alter public access to National Forest System lands of the
unit, including any change in access using motorized vehicles or
nonmotorized means resulting from—
(i)
the decommissioning in whole or in part of a road, trail, or combination road and trail system;
(ii)
a change in the status of a road as open or closed; or
(iii)
a change in forest road densities; and
(B)
requires the preparation of an environmental impact statement or environmental assessment under the
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4331 et seq.
).
(2)
Affected county
The term
affected county
means—
(A)
a political subdivision of a State whose boundaries contain National Forest System lands of a unit
of the National Forest System affected by an access travel management
action; or
(B)
a political subdivision of a State adjacent to a political subdivision of a State described in
subparagraph (A).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(4)
Travel management rule
The term
travel management rule
refers to subparts A, B, and C of part 212 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations, and subparts
A and B of part 261 of such title.
(5)
Unit of the National Forest System
The terms
unit of the National Forest System
and
unit
are limited to a unit of the National Forest System derived from the public domain.
(b)
Prohibition on implementation or enforcement of travel management rule
Immediately upon the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall cease all implementation and
enforcement of the travel management rule for units of the National Forest
System derived from the public domain.
(c)
Consultation with and concurrence of affected counties
(1)
Consultation
As a condition on the preparation of an environmental impact statement or environmental assessment
under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4331 et
seq.) for a proposed access travel management action, the Secretary shall
consult with each affected county for the purpose of incorporating the
needs, uses, and input of affected counties.
(2)
Concurrence
The Secretary may not implement an access travel management action unless and until the Secretary—
(A)
complies with the consultation requirement imposed by paragraph (1); and
(B)
obtains the concurrence of each affected county for implementation of the access travel management
action.
