1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ensuring Medicaid and Medicare Access to Providers Act
.
2.
Certain Medicare and Medicaid providers temporarily exempt from employer health insurance mandate
(a)
In general
Section 4980H(c)(2)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the
following new subparagraph:
(F)
Exception for certain Medicare and Medicaid providers
(i)
In general
In the case of any month beginning in 2014 or 2015, the term
applicable large employer
shall not include any employer who is a specified Medicare and Medicaid provider with respect to
the calendar year in which such month begins.
(ii)
Specified Medicare and Medicaid provider
The term
specified Medicare and Medicaid provider
means, with respect to any calendar year, any employer if the total specified Medicare and
Medicaid payments received by such employer during the applicable period
equals or exceeds 60 percent of the total gross receipts of such employer
for such period.
(iii)
Specified Medicare and Medicaid payments
The term
specified Medicare and Medicaid payments
means—
(I)
any payment made to the employer under title XIX of the Social Security Act for the furnishing of
items and services included as medical assistance (as defined in section
1905(a) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)
)) under such title,
and
(II)
any payment made to the employer under title XVIII of such Act for the furnishing of items and
services to individuals entitled to benefits under part A of such title or
enrolled under part B of such title, including dual eligible individuals
(as defined in section 1915(h)(2)(B) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1396n(h)(2)(B))).
(iv)
Treatment of payment for items and services furnished through a health plan
In applying clause (iii) with respect to the payment for items and services furnished to
individuals enrolled in a health plan under a contract under title XVIII
or XIX of the Social Security Act, payment for such items and services
under such plan shall be treated as payment under such respective title.
(v)
Applicable period
(I)
In general
For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
applicable period
means, with respect to any calendar year, the 3 taxable years ending before the beginning of such
calendar year.
(II)
Application of certain rules
Rules similar to the rules of subparagraphs (A), (C), and (D) of section 448(c)(3) shall apply for
purposes of this clause.
(III)
Special rule for first taxable year of existence
In the case of an employer no taxable year of which ends before the beginning of the calendar year,
the applicable period for such calendar year shall be the period beginning
on the date that such employer came into existence and ending with the
close of such calendar year.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by this section shall apply to months beginning after December 31, 2013.
