1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cross Border Aerial Law Enforcement Operations Act
.
2.
Integrated cross border aerial law enforcement operations program
(a)
Authorization
If authorized pursuant to a bilateral agreement between the United States Government and the Government of Canada, the Secretary of Homeland Security may establish an integrated cross border aerial law enforcement program (referred to in this section as the
Program
) along the international border between the United States and Canada, which should be modeled off the Framework Agreement on Integrated Cross-Border Maritime Law Enforcement Operations Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Canada, done at Detroit May 26, 2009.
(b)
Program elements
(1)
Participants
The Program may be staffed by approved law enforcement officers from—
(A)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, including personnel from Air and Marine Operations, U.S. Border Patrol, or the Office of Field Operations;
(B)
the United States Coast Guard; and
(C)
any other Federal law enforcement agency designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(2)
Scope
The jurisdiction of the Program shall be limited to the territory located within 50 miles of the international border between the United States and Canada unless—
(A)
a situation within such territory requires an aircraft to leave from or return to an airport, heliport, or base of operations located outside such territory; or
(B)
there are exigent circumstances relating to authorized Program activities, including an emergency on an aircraft or an emergency on the ground.
(3)
Civil rights
The Program shall ensure that the civil rights, civil liberties, and privacy of all individuals within the jurisdiction of the United States are guaranteed in accordance with Federal law.
(c)
Communications
U.S. Customs and Border Protection and any other law enforcement agency designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security are authorized to establish necessary communication protocols for the safety of cross border aerial law enforcement operations.
(d)
Reporting requirements
(1)
Unmanned aircraft system report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
, the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
, the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
, and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
that describes the use of unmanned aircraft systems (referred to in this paragraph as
UAS
) along the northern international border of the United States, including—
(A)
interagency coordination to mitigate incursions from unauthorized UAS;
(B)
any jurisdictional issues that would prevent the mitigation of unauthorized UAS;
(C)
the use of UAS by malign actors—
(i)
to collect intelligence or surveil law enforcement operations;
(ii)
to move contraband, persons, or payloads across the international border; or
(iii)
to conduct espionage; and
(D)
an assessment of the feasibility for joint, cross-border law enforcement operations involving UAS or counter-unmanned aircraft systems.
(2)
Failure to finalize program report
If the Program is not finalized on or before the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report to the committees referred to in paragraph (1) that includes—
(A)
a description of any unresolved issues that are preventing the completion of such Program;
(B)
any actions that Congress could take to facilitate the completion of such Program; and
(C)
a recommendation regarding whether—
(i)
the Secretary should continue trying to establish such Program; or
(ii)
such Program is not needed.
