1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Voice for Farm Workers Act of 2023
.
2.
Farmworker Coordinator
Section 226B(f) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (
7 U.S.C. 6934(f)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
organizations
and inserting
organizations, institutions of higher education, and local educational agencies
;
(B)
in subparagraph (E), by striking
institutions on research, program improvements, or agricultural education opportunities
and inserting
institutions or community-based nonprofit organizations on research, program improvements, agricultural education opportunities, or technical skills and job training programs
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(G)
Assessing the effectiveness with respect to farmworkers of Department outreach programs.
(H)
Developing and implementing a plan to coordinate outreach activities and services provided by the Department with respect to farmworkers.
(I)
Collaborating with and providing input on programmatic and policy decisions relating to farmworkers to the agencies and offices of the Department, including—
(i)
the Farm Service Agency;
(ii)
the Natural Resources Conservation Service;
(iii)
the rural development mission area;
(iv)
the National Institute of Food and Agriculture;
(v)
the Food and Nutrition Service;
(vi)
the Agricultural Marketing Service;
(vii)
the Forest Service;
(viii)
the National Agricultural Statistics Service; and
(ix)
any other agency or office that the Coordinator determines to be appropriate.
(J)
Communicating to employers of farmworkers, and publicizing on the website of the Department, information about Federal programs for which the employees of those employers may be eligible.
(K)
Identifying research priorities to inform the research activities of the Department relating to farmworkers.
(L)
Measuring and analyzing outcomes of the programs and activities of the Department on farmworkers.
(M)
Recommending new initiatives and programs to the Secretary.
(N)
Carrying out any other related duties that the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
(3)
Staff
The Secretary, acting through the Coordinator, shall employ such staff as the Secretary determines necessary to carry out the duties described in paragraph (2).
; and
(4)
in paragraph (4) (as so redesignated), in subparagraph (B), by striking
2023
and inserting
2029
.
