1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Recreation for All Act
.
2.
Increasing youth recreation visits to Federal land
(a)
Strategy
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this Act as the
Secretaries
) shall develop and make public a national strategy, after public notice and comment, to increase the number of youth recreation visits to Federal land.
(b)
Requirements
A strategy developed under subsection (a)—
(1)
shall—
(A)
emphasize increased recreation opportunities on Federal land for underserved youth;
(B)
establish objectives and quantifiable targets for increasing youth recreation visits; and
(C)
provide the anticipated costs to achieve the objectives and meet the targets established under subparagraph (B); and
(2)
shall not establish any preference between similar recreation facilitated by noncommercial or commercial entities.
(c)
Agreements
The Secretaries may enter into contracts or cost-share agreements (including contracts or agreements for the acquisition of vehicles) to carry out this section.
3.
Monitoring for improved recreation decisionmaking
(a)
In general
The Secretaries shall seek to capture comprehensive recreation use data to better understand and inform decisionmaking by the Secretaries.
(b)
Pilot protocols
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and after public notice and comment, the Secretaries shall establish pilot protocols at not fewer than 10 land management units under the jurisdiction of each of the Secretaries to model recreation use patterns (including low-use recreation activities and dispersed recreation activities) that may not be effectively measured by existing general and opportunistic survey and monitoring protocols.
4.
Informing the public of access closures
(a)
In general
The Secretaries shall, to the extent practicable and in a timely fashion, alert the public to any closure or disruption to public campsites, trails, roads, and other public areas and access points under the jurisdiction of the applicable Secretary.
(b)
Online alert
An alert under subsection (a) shall be posted online on a public website of the appropriate land unit in a manner that—
(1)
ensures that the public can easily find the alert in searching for the applicable campsite, trail, road, or other access point; and
(2)
consolidates all alerts under subsection (a).
5.
Recreation budget crosscut
Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2025, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to Congress and make public online a report that describes and itemizes the total amount of funding relating to outdoor recreation that was obligated in the preceding fiscal year in accounts in the Treasury for the Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture.
