1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Countering Adversary Reconnaissance (CAR) Act of 2024
.
2.
Prohibition on certain connected vehicles and connected vehicle components near military installations, facilities of the Federal Government, and sensitive infrastructure
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Information and communications technology and services integral to connected vehicles generally enable safer and more fuel-efficient travel for drivers and passengers.
(2)
Such technology and services that are designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of foreign adversaries can offer a direct entry point for reconnaissance and surveillance of sensitive technology and data and bypass measures intended to protect the safety and security of United States persons, posing an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States.
(b)
Prohibition
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the operation of covered technology is prohibited within 25 miles of a military installation, a facility of the Federal Government, or sensitive infrastructure.
(2)
Modification
The President may modify the radius of the prohibition on operation of covered technology under paragraph (1) for certain military installations determined by the President to be sensitive.
(c)
Enforcement
The President may direct the Attorney General, and the heads of other Federal agencies as the President determines appropriate, to prescribe regulations necessary to enforce the prohibition under subsection (b).
(d)
Study
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly conduct a study on the national security concerns that covered technology presents to the United States.
(2)
Report
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly—
(A)
submit to Congress a classified report on the study conducted under paragraph (1); and
(B)
publish on a publicly available website an unclassified report on such study.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered technology
The term
covered technology
means connected vehicles or components for connected vehicles that are manufactured in a country that is a foreign adversary.
(2)
Foreign adversary
The term
foreign adversary
has the meaning given that term in section 7.4 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor regulations.
(3)
Military installation
The term
military installation
has the meaning given that term in section 2801(c)(4) of title 10, United States Code.
(4)
Sensitive infrastructure
The term
sensitive infrastructure
has the meaning given that term through regulations prescribed jointly by the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Commerce, the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Energy, and the Secretary of Defense.
