1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Providing Resources and Opportunities for Health Education And Learning Act of 2024
or the
PRO-HEAL Act of 2024
.
2.
Grant program to expand or create health care provider pipelines
(a)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration.
(2)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means a State or institution of higher education.
(3)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
).
(4)
State
The term
State
means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and each of the outlying areas (as such term is defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
)).
(b)
Authorization of grants
(1)
In general
The Administrator shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to enable the eligible entities to expand or create health care provider pipeline programs.
(2)
Duration
Grants awarded under this section shall be for a term of not more than 5 years.
(3)
Reservation
The Administrator shall reserve 25 percent of amounts made available to carry out this section to award grants to eligible entities that are eligible institutions described in section 371 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1067q
).
(4)
Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Administrator shall give priority to—
(A)
programs designed to serve underserved or rural communities;
(B)
programs designed to increase the number of health care professionals who are primary care providers; or
(C)
eligible entities that intend to recruit a majority of individuals to participate in the health care provider pipeline program from within the same State as the eligible entity or in which the eligible entity is located.
(c)
Application
An eligible entity that desires to receive a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Administrator at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Administrator may require.
(d)
Use of funds
(1)
In general
An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall use the grant funds to expand or create health care provider pipeline programs that are designed to increase the number of one or more of the following groups of health care professionals:
(A)
Medical Doctors and Doctors of Osteopathic Medicine.
(B)
Physician Assistants.
(C)
Nurse Practitioners.
(D)
Nurses.
(E)
Emergency Medical Technicians.
(F)
Dentists.
(G)
Behavioral Health Providers.
(2)
Additional providers
The Administrator may add to the list of health care professionals eligible for health care provider pipeline programs under paragraph (1) based on areas of need and shortages across the Nation.
(e)
Reports
An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall submit a report to the Administrator, not later than 5 years after receiving the grant and at the end of the grant period, on the implementation of the health care provider pipeline program, including details on—
(1)
a breakdown of funding uses;
(2)
admission rates to the program;
(3)
admission criteria for the program;
(4)
demographics of admitted students; and
(5)
program drop-out rates.
(f)
Grants after reauthorization
If the grant program under this section is authorized for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2029, the Administrator, in awarding grants after fiscal year 2029, shall give priority to eligible entities that have already received a grant under this section.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $215,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2025 through 2029.
