1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protect Our Letter Carriers Act of 2024
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of the Congress that—
(1)
United States Postal Service letter carriers must be protected from acts of violence; and
(2)
the Attorney General should vigorously prosecute any case of assault against a postal employee.
3.
Funds to upgrade collection boxes
There is authorized to be appropriated $1,400,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029 to the United States Postal Service to carry out, as determined by the United States Postal Service—
(1)
the installation of high security collection boxes; and
(2)
the replacement of older versions of the universal mailbox key, also known as the arrow key, with electronic versions.
4.
Coordination of prosecution of offenses against the United States Postal Service
(a)
In general
Section 542 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
The Attorney General shall, in consultation with the United States attorney for the district, appoint in each judicial district an assistant United States attorney with principal responsibility in the district to coordinate and supervise the investigation and prosecution of alleged offenses committed—
(1)
in violation of
chapter 83
of title 18;
(2)
in violation of sections 2115, 2116, or 2117 of title 18; or
(3)
against a carrier or person entrusted with the mail and having custody thereof, in violation of section 111 of title 18.
.
(b)
Deadline for compliance
The Attorney General shall comply with section 542(c) of title 28, United States Code, as added by this Act, not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
5.
Sentencing guidelines with respect to robbery against a postal employee
Not later than May 1 following the first year that begins after the date of enactment of this Act, the United States Sentencing Commission shall amend the sentencing guidelines and policy statements promulgated under section 994 of title 28, United States Code, to provide that the assault or robbery of a postal employee, including conduct committed during the immediate flight after the commission of such an assault or robbery if the conduct creates a substantial risk of serious bodily injury, shall be treated in the same manner as the assault of a law enforcement officer.
