1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
More Parking, More Hiking Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Federal recreational lands and waters
The term
Federal recreational lands and waters
has the meaning given the term in section 802 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (
16 U.S.C. 6801
).
(2)
Secretaries
The term
Secretaries
means each of—
(A)
the Secretary of the Interior; and
(B)
the Secretary of Agriculture.
3.
Parking opportunities for Federal recreational lands and waters
(a)
In general
The Secretaries shall seek to increase parking opportunities for persons recreating on Federal recreational lands and waters—
(1)
in accordance with existing laws and applicable land use plans;
(2)
in a manner that minimizes any increase in maintenance obligations on Federal recreational lands and waters; and
(3)
in a manner that does not impact wildlife habitat that is critical to the mission of a Federal agency responsible for managing units of Federal recreational lands and waters.
(b)
Authority
To supplement the quantity of parking spaces available at units of Federal recreational lands and waters on the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries may—
(1)
enter into a public-private partnership to provide parking opportunities on non-Federal land;
(2)
enter into partnerships or agreements with State and local governments to provide parking opportunities and transportation systems using non-Federal land and resources;
(3)
lease non-Federal land for parking opportunities; or
(4)
provide alternative transportation systems for a unit of Federal recreational lands and waters.
(c)
Technological solutions
To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretaries shall investigate the use of, and incorporate, as the Secretaries determine appropriate, technologies to better manage parking availability, access, and information at units of Federal recreational lands and water, including—
(1)
the installation and use of trailhead cameras and monitors to determine parking availability at trailheads, the information from which shall be made available online and via mobile notifications; and
(2)
the use of data collection technology to estimate visitation volumes for use in future planning for parking opportunities at units of Federal recreational lands and waters.
