1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Airline Operational Resiliency Act of 2023
.
2.
GAO study and report on the operational preparedness of air carriers for preparing for changing weather and other events related to changing conditions and natural hazards
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
The Comptroller General shall study and assess the operational preparedness of air carriers for preparing for changing weather and other events related to changing conditions and natural hazards, including flooding, extreme heat, changes in precipitation, storms, including winter storms, coastal storms, tropical storms, and hurricanes, and fire conditions.
(2)
Requirements
As part of the study required by paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall assess the following:
(A)
The extent to which air carriers are preparing for weather events and natural disasters, as well as changing conditions and natural hazards, that may impact air carriers’ operational investments, staffing levels and safety policies, mitigation strategies, and other resiliency planning.
(B)
How the Federal Aviation Administration oversees air carriers’ operational resilience to storms and natural disasters, as well as changing conditions.
(C)
Steps the Federal Government and air carriers can take to improve their operational resilience to storms and natural disasters, as well as changing conditions.
(b)
Briefing and report
(1)
Briefing
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Comptroller General shall brief the appropriate committees of Congress on the study required by subsection (a), together with recommendations for such legislation and administrative action as the Comptroller General determines appropriate.
(2)
Report
Not later than 6 months after the briefing required by paragraph (1) is provided, the Comptroller General shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of Congress on the study required by subsection (a), together with recommendations for such legislation and administrative action as the Comptroller General determines appropriate.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Air carrier
The term
air carrier
has the meaning given that term in section 40102 of title 49, United States Code.
(2)
Appropriate committees of congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
(3)
Comptroller General
The term
Comptroller General
means the Comptroller General of the United States.
