1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prevention Services for Youth Act
.
2.
Improving access to a continuum of prevention services
(a)
Guidance
Not later than July 1, 2026, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the
Secretary
), in coordination with the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, the Administrator of the Administration for Children, Youth, and Families, and the United States Preventive Services Task Force, shall issue guidance to States, political subdivisions of States, and Indian Tribes or Tribal organizations (as such terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
)) regarding services provided under the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
) and the Children's Health Insurance Program under title XXI of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.
) (referred to in this section as
CHIP
) that includes the following:
(1)
Provides, in consultation with health care providers and stakeholders with expertise in mental health and substance use disorder, recommendations for an effective continuum of mental health and substance use disorder prevention services for children, adolescents, and young adults that—
(A)
includes State educational agencies and local educational agencies (as such terms are defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
)), juvenile justice settings, behavioral health treatment programs, behavioral health providers, youth development programs, Tribal organizations (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
)) and Urban Indian organizations (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (
25 U.S.C. 1603
)), and other entities as the Secretary determines appropriate; and
(B)
promotes access to mental health and substance use disorder prevention services for children, adolescents, and young adults.
(2)
Outlines, but does not limit, the Federal authorities through which States may finance and enhance under the Medicaid program and CHIP the availability of mental health and substance use disorder prevention services for children, adolescents, and young adults.
(3)
Identifies how States, through the Medicaid program and CHIP, may support access to mental health and substance use disorder prevention services that are responsive to the needs of children, adolescents, young adults, and families, including through—
(A)
health services initiatives of CHIP;
(B)
evidence-based peer support services;
(C)
adverse childhood experiences mitigation and early intervention initiatives; and
(D)
the involvement of youth in the implementation and development of such initiatives.
(4)
Identifies culturally competent policies and practices to meet the need for mental health and substance use disorder prevention services with respect to diverse child, adolescent, and young adult populations, including urban and rural communities, racial and ethnic populations, individuals with disabilities, and other populations as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(5)
Describes best practices for coordinating Medicaid and CHIP funding with other payors and sources of Federal funding for mental health and substance use disorder prevention services.
(6)
Identifies best practices for measuring the effectiveness of community-based mental health and substance use disorder prevention services for children, adolescents, and young adults.
(b)
Technical assistance
The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to States under the Medicaid program and CHIP for purposes of carrying out activities pursuant to this section.
