Executive Order 7138—Establishing Airspace Reservations Over Certain Military and Naval Reservations and Other Areas
August 12, 1935
Franklin D. Roosevelt

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 4 of the Air Commerce Act of 1926 (44 Stat. 568, 570), the airspaces over the military and naval reservations and other areas hereinafter designated are hereby reserved and set aside for governmental purposes as airspace reservations within which civil aircraft, for reasons of public safety, are forbidden to be operated except by special permission in each case of that department of the Government of the United States having jurisdiction over the reservations or areas concerned:

Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, New Jersey.

Savanna Ordnance Depot, Savanna, Illinois.

Nansemond Ordnance Depot, Portsmouth, Virginia.

Wingate Ordnance Depot, Gallup, New Mexico.

Camp Stanley Ordnance Reservations, Leon Springs, Texas.

Fort Hancock, Sandy Hook, New Jersey.

Fort Saulsbury, about 4 miles east of Milford, Delaware.

Fort Pickens, western portion of Santa Rosa Island, Pensacola Bay, Florida.

Fort Barry, near Point Bonita Lighthouse, San Francisco Bay, California.

Fort Canby, near Cape Disappointment Lighthouse, Washington.

Fort Casey, near Admiralty Head Lighthouse, Washington.

Naval Ammunition Depot, Hingham, Massachusetts.

Naval Ammunition Depot, Fort Lafayette, New York.

Naval Ammunition Depot, Lake Denmark, New Jersey.

Naval Ammunition Depot, St. Juliens Creek, Virginia.

Naval Ammunition Depot, Hawthorne, Nevada.

Naval Ammunition Depot, Mare Island, California.

Naval Ammunition Depot, Puget Sound, Washington.

Naval Mine Depot, Yorktown, Virginia.

Naval Torpedo Station, Newport, Rhode Island.

Naval Torpedo Station, Keyport, Washington.

Naval Ordnance Plant, Baldwin, Long Island, New York.

Naval Fuel Depot, San Diego, California.

That part of the Aleutian Islands, Alaska, with their territorial waters, lying west of the 167th meridian, west longitude.

Persons operating aircraft within the airspace reservations herein established in violation of the provisions of this order or of the said Air Commerce Act of 1926 will be subject to the penalties prescribed by section 11 of the said act.

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

The White House,

August 12, 1935.
