Executive Order [on the death of  ]
 
 

GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 34.

WAR DEPARTMENT,

 -GENERAL'S OFFICE,

 ,  .

I. The following orders of the President of   and Secretary of War communicate to the   the death of the late ex-President.  :

 ,

 .

The President with deep regret announces to the   people the death of  , late President of  , which occurred at   on the 15th instant.

A nation is suddenly called upon to mourn the loss of one the recollection of whose long services in its councils will be forever preserved on the tablets of history.

As a mark of respect to the memory of a citizen who has been distinguished by the highest honors which his country could bestow, it is ordered that the Executive Mansion and the several   at   be immediately placed in mourning and all business be suspended during to-morrow.

It is further ordered that the War and   cause suitable military and naval honors to be paid on this occasion to the memory of the illustrious dead.

 

WAR DEPARTMENT,

 .

The President of   with deep regret announces to the   the death of  , our distinguished and honored fellow-citizen.

He died at   the 15th instant, having but recently left the theater of his high public duties at this capital and retired to his home amid the congratulations of his fellow-citizens. He died in the prime of life, after having received and enjoyed the highest honors of the Republic.

His Administration was eventful. No branch of the   will be more intimately associated with it in history than the   and its glorious achievements. Accordingly, the President orders that appropriate military honors shall be paid to his memory by  .

The Adjutant-General will give the necessary instructions for carrying into effect the foregoing orders.

 ,

Secretary of War.

II. On   succeeding the arrival of this general order at each military post the troops will be paraded at 10 o'clock a. m. and the order read to them, after which all labors for   will cease. The national flag will be displayed at half-staff.

At dawn of day thirteen guns will be fired, and afterwards at intervals of thirty minutes between the rising and setting sun a single gun, and at the close of   a national salute of thirty guns.

The officers of the   will wear trope on the left arm and on their swords and the colors of the several regiments will be put in mourning for  .

By order:

  JONES,

Adjutant-General.
