Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property of    and  ), and property and interests in property held in the name of   or of the former  , that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked.

 . 2. The following are prohibited, notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order:

(a) The importation into   of any goods originating in, or services performed in,    and  ), exported from    and  ) after  , or any activity that promotes or is intended to promote such importation;

(b) The exportation to    and  ), or to any entity operated from    and  ), or owned or controlled by    and  ), directly or indirectly, of any goods, technology (including technical data or other information controlled for export pursuant to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 C.F.R. Parts 768,

et seq

.), or services, either (i) from  , (ii) requiring the issuance of a license by a Federal agency, or (iii) involving the use of U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, or any activity that promotes or is intended to promote such exportation;

(c) Any dealing by a   person related to property originating in    and  ) exported from    and  ) after  , or property intended for exportation from    and  ) to any country, or exportation to    and  ) from any country, or any activity of any kind that promotes or is intended to promote such dealing;

(d) Any transaction by a   person, or involving the use of U.S.-registered vessels and aircraft, relating to transportation to or from    and  ), the provision of transportation to or from   by any person in    and  ) or any vessel or aircraft registered in    and  ), or the sale in   by any person holding authority under the Federal Aviation Act of  , as amended

et seq

.), of any transportation by air that includes any stop in    and  );

(e) The granting of permission to any aircraft to take off from, land in, or overfly  , if the aircraft, as part of the same flight or as a continuation of that flight, is destined to land in or has taken off from the territory of    and  );

(f) The performance by any   person of any contract, including a financing contract, in support of an industrial, commercial, public utility, or governmental project in    and  );

(g) Any commitment or transfer, direct or indirect, of funds, or other financial or economic resources by any   person to or for the benefit of    and  ) or any other person in    and  );

(h) Any transaction in   or by a   person related to participation in sporting events in   by persons or groups representing    and  );

(i) Any transaction in   or by a   person related to scientific and technical cooperation and cultural exchanges involving persons or groups officially sponsored by or representing    and  ), or related to visits to   by such persons or groups other than as authorized for the purpose of participation at the United Nations.

 . 3. Nothing in this order shall apply to (i) the transshipment through    and  ) of commodities and products originating outside    and  ) and temporarily present in the territory of    and  ) only for the purpose of such transshipment, and (ii) activities related to   (UNPROFOR), the Conference on  , or  .

 . 4. Any transaction by any   person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 5. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  , and vessels and aircraft of   registration;

(b) The term "   and  )" means the territory of   and  ;

(c) The term "the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and  )" includes the government of the newly constituted  ,  , and  , including any subdivisions thereof or local governments therein, their respective agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, and any persons acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing, including  ,  , and  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

 . 6. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. Such actions may include prohibiting or regulating payments or transfers of any property, or any transactions involving the transfer of anything of economic value, by the any   person to    and  ), any person in    and  ), or any person or entity acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any of the foregoing. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 7. All delegations, rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action made, issued, or otherwise taken under Executive Order No.   and not revoked administratively shall remain in full force and effect under this order until amended, modified, or terminated by proper authority.

 . 8. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 9. (a) This order is effective immediately.

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
