1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Advancing Telehealth Beyond COVID–19 Act of 2020
.
2.
Permitting the Secretary of Health and Human Services to waive requirements relating to the furnishing of telehealth services under the Medicare program
Section 1834(m) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395m(m)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(9)
Authority to waive telehealth requirements
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the Secretary may waive any such provision for any area and time period specified by the Secretary.
.
3.
Making permanent the ability of federally qualified health centers and rural health clinics to furnish telehealth services under the Medicare program
Section 1834(m)(8) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395m(m)(8)
) is amended—
(1)
in the header, by striking
during emergency period
;
(2)
in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking
During
and inserting
Beginning on the first day of
; and
(3)
in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking
during such emergency period
.
4.
Clarification for fraud and abuse laws regarding technologies provided to beneficiaries
Section 1128A(i)(6) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a–7a(i)(6)) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (I), by striking
; or
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
in subparagraph (J), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(K)
the provision of technologies (as defined by the Secretary) on or after the date of the enactment of this subparagraph, by a provider of services or supplier (as such terms are defined for purposes of title XVIII) directly to an individual who is entitled to benefits under part A of title XVIII, enrolled under part B of such title, or both, for the purpose of furnishing telehealth services, remote patient monitoring services, or other services furnished through the use of technology (as defined by the Secretary), if—
(i)
the technologies are not offered as part of any advertisement or solicitation; and
(ii)
the provision of the technologies meets any other requirements set forth in regulations promulgated by the Secretary.
.
