1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Telehealth for Underserved Communities Act of 2020
.
2.
Simplifying payments for telehealth services furnished by Federally qualified health centers or rural health clinics
(a)
In general
Section 1834(m)(8)(B) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395m(m)(8)(B)
) is amended to read as follows:
(B)
Payment
The Secretary shall pay to a Federally qualified health center or rural health clinic serving as a distant site that furnishes a telehealth service to an eligible telehealth individual an amount equal to the amount that such Federally qualified health center or rural health clinic would have been paid under the payment methodology described in section 1834(o) or section 1833(a)(3), respectively, had such service been furnished without the use of a telecommunications system. Costs associated with the delivery of such services by a Federally qualified health center or rural health clinic serving as a distant site pursuant to this paragraph shall be considered allowable costs for purposes of the payment methodologies described in the previous sentence.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to payments for telehealth services furnished on or after the first day of the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1320b–5(g)(1)(B)
).
3.
Increasing limits on payment for rural health clinic services
Section 1833(f) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395l(f)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
, and
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
by inserting
(before 2020)
after
subsequent year
; and
(B)
by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(3)
in 2020, at $92.03 per visit; and
(4)
in a subsequent year, at the limit established under this subsection for the previous year increased by the percentage increase in the MEI (as so defined) applicable to primary care services (as so defined) furnished as of the first day of that year.
.
