1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Returning Inappropriate Cash Handouts Act
or the
RICH Act
.
2.
Prohibiting payment of Pandemic Unemployment Assistance and Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation to millionaires
(a)
Pandemic Unemployment Assistance
Section 2102 of the Relief for Workers Affected by Coronavirus Act (contained in subtitle A of title II of division A of the CARES Act (
Public Law 116–136
)) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(3)(B)—
(A)
in clause (i), by striking
or
at the end;
(B)
in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
an individual whose adjusted gross income is equal to or greater than $1,000,000.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(i)
Prohibition on assistance to millionaires
(1)
Compliance
Any application for assistance authorized under subsection (b) shall include a form or procedure for an individual applicant to certify that such individual is not prohibited from receiving such assistance pursuant to subsection (a)(3)(B)(iii).
(2)
Audits
The certifications required by paragraph (1) shall be auditable by the Department of Labor or the Government Accountability Office.
.
(b)
Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation
Section 2104(b) of the Relief for Workers Affected by Coronavirus Act (contained in subtitle A of title II of division A of the CARES Act (
Public Law 116–136
)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
Prohibition on compensation to millionaires
(A)
In general
Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation shall not be payable to any individual whose adjusted gross income is equal to or greater than $1,000,000.
(B)
Compliance
Any application for regular compensation shall include a form or procedure for an individual applicant to certify that such individual is not prohibited from receiving Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation pursuant to subparagraph (A).
(C)
Audits
The certifications required by subparagraph (B) shall be auditable by the Department of Labor or the Government Accountability Office.
.
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act, or any amendment made by this Act, may be construed to apply to regular compensation or extended compensation (as such terms are defined by section 205 of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act (
26 U.S.C. 3304
note)) to which an individual may be otherwise entitled.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to weeks of unemployment beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
