1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area Establishment Act
.
2.
Conveyance for Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Town
The term
Town
means the town of Apple Valley, California.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(b)
Conveyance of Federal land to town
(1)
Conveyance required
Not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the Town, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the surface estate of approximately 4,630 acres of land generally as
Proposed Conveyance Area
on the entitled
Conveyance to the Town of Apple Valley
and dated June 1, 2015. Such land shall be known and designated as the
Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area
.
(2)
Existing rights and mineral estate
The conveyance under this subsection—
(A)
is subject to valid existing rights; and
(B)
does not include the mineral estate.
(c)
Use of conveyed land
(1)
In general
The land conveyed under subsection (b) may be used by the Town for any public purpose authorized in paragraph (2), consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act;
43 U.S.C. 869
et seq.).
(2)
Authorized purposes
The purposes of the conveyance under subsection (b) are to permit the Town to use the conveyed land to provide—
(A)
a suitable location for the establishment of a centralized off-road vehicle recreation park;
(B)
the public with opportunities for off-road vehicle recreation, including a location for races, competitive events, training and other commercial services that directly support a centralized off-road vehicle recreation area and Town park; and
(C)
a designated area and facilities that would discourage unauthorized use of off-highway vehicles in areas that have been identified by the Federal Government, the State of California, or the County of San Bernardino as containing environmentally sensitive land.
(3)
Disposal prohibited
The land conveyed under subsection (b) may not be disposed of by the Town without the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
(d)
Temporary reversionary interest
During the 5-year period beginning on the date of the conveyance of the land under subsection (b), if the Secretary of the Interior determines that the Town has disposed of the conveyed land in violation of subsection (c)(3) or has failed to establish the off-road vehicle recreation park, title to the land shall revert to the United States, at the option of the Secretary. At the end of the 5-year period, the Secretary shall release the reversionary interest.
(e)
Management plan
The Secretary may develop a special management plan for the Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area to enhance the safe use of off-highway vehicles for recreational purposes.
