1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Wildfire Wireless Resiliency Act
.
2.
Application of NEPA and NHPA to covered communications projects
(a)
NEPA categorical exclusion
(1)
In general
A covered project shall be categorically excluded from the requirement to prepare an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement under section 102 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4332
).
(2)
Relation to extraordinary circumstances procedures
The use of the categorical exclusion under paragraph (1) shall not be considered to include extraordinary circumstances under section 220.6 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations, or section 1508.4 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor to those regulations).
(b)
National historic preservation act exemption
A covered project shall not be considered an undertaking under section 300320 of title 54, United States Code.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Communications facility
The term
communications facility
includes—
(A)
any wireless or wireline infrastructure for the transmission of writing, signs, signals, data, images, pictures, or sounds of all kinds;
(B)
any transmitting device, tower, or support structure, and any equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources, shelters, or cabinets, associated with the provision of communications services; and
(C)
any antenna or apparatus that—
(i)
is designed for the purpose of emitting radio frequency;
(ii)
is designed to be operated, or is operating, from a fixed location; and
(iii)
is added to a tower, building, or other structure.
(2)
Communications service
The term
communications service
means a service for the transmission of writing, signs, signals, data, images, pictures, or sounds of all kinds.
(3)
Covered project
The term
covered project
means a project that—
(A)
is to be carried out entirely within an area for which a Governor has declared a major disaster or an emergency related to a wildfire;
(B)
is to be carried out not later than 5 years after the date the Governor made such declaration; and
(C)
replaces a communications facility damaged by such disaster or emergency or makes improvements to a communications facility in such area that could reasonably be considered as necessary for recovery from such disaster or emergency or to prevent or mitigate future disasters or emergencies.
