1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Plum Island Preservation Act of 2019
.
2.
Repeal of requirement to sell certain Federal property in Plum Island, New York
(a)
Sale
Section 540 of title V of division D of the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009 (
Public Law 110–329
; 122 Stat. 3688) is repealed.
(b)
Determination
Section 538 of title V of division D of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (
Public Law 112–74
; 125 Stat. 976) is repealed.
3.
Preservation of Plum Island, New York for conservation, education, and research
In the case of the disposition of Plum Island, New York, the property and assets subject to such disposition shall, under chapter 5 of subtitle I of title 40, United States Code, be limited to the purposes of conservation, education, and research.
4.
Special resource study of Plum Island light station
(a)
Special resource study
(1)
Study
The Secretary shall conduct a special resource study of the study area.
(2)
Contents
In conducting the study under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
evaluate the national significance of the study area;
(B)
determine the suitability and feasibility of designating the study area as a unit of the National Park System;
(C)
consider other alternatives for preservation, protection, and interpretation of the study area by the Federal Government, State or local government entities, or private and nonprofit organizations;
(D)
consult with interested Federal agencies, State or local governmental entities, private and nonprofit organizations, or any other interested individuals; and
(E)
identify cost estimates for any Federal acquisition, development, interpretation, operation, and maintenance associated with the alternatives.
(3)
Applicable law
The study required under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 54, United States Code.
(4)
Report
Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are first made available for the study under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report that describes—
(A)
the results of the study; and
(B)
any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(2)
Study area
The term
study area
means Plum Island Light Station (USCG number 1–21090), a historic granite lighthouse originally built in 1869 located on the northwest corner of Plum Island, New York, and as listed on the National Register of Historic Places on February 18, 2011.
