1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protect our Children from COVIDГўВҖВ“19 Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
School closures have substantial negative effects on childrenГўВҖВҷs education, mental health, and social development.
(2)
In general, school closures compound inequalities in rural and low-income communities, where students often lack access to computers and high-speed internet.
(3)
Returning children to the classroom will not only facilitate their development, but also free up their adult caregivers as they return to work.
(4)
To date, scientific evidence suggests children have a lower probability of developing a serious illness from COVIDГўВҖВ“19 than adults. It remains unclear, however, what role children play in transmitting SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2.
(5)
Pursuing research that analyzes and understands the transmissibility of SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2 in children will help families, educators, and elected leaders make better decisions on re-opening schools and our economy.
3.
Study on childrenГўВҖВҷs role in transmitting SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
Not later than August 1, 2020, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
), in coordination with the heads of agencies of the Department of Health and Human Services and experts from outside of the Department, as appropriate, shall complete a study on childrenГўВҖВҷs role in transmitting SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2.
(2)
Issues to be studied
The study under paragraph (1) shall addressГўВҖВ”
(A)
the transmissibility of COVIDГўВҖВ“19 from child to child, child to adult, and adult to child;
(B)
the vulnerability of children, especially those with underlying health conditions, to severe illness as such vulnerability relates to COVIDГўВҖВ“19;
(C)
the vulnerability of adults, especially those with underlying health conditions, who send their children back to school; and
(D)
the vulnerability of adults, especially those with underlying health conditions, who interact with children who may be asymptomatic but infectious.
(3)
Considerations
In carrying out the study under paragraph (1), the Secretary shallГўВҖВ”
(A)
take into consideration the best available science, including as provided by the National Academy of Sciences; and
(B)
ensure that such study includes consideration of children who are members of racial or ethnic minority groups.
(b)
Reporting
Not later than August 1, 2020, and quarterly thereafter through the end of the emergency period, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress on childrenГўВҖВҷs role in transmitting SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2. The first such report shall include the results of the study under subsection (a).
(c)
Dissemination of best practices
Not later than August 1, 2020, and quarterly thereafter through the end of the emergency period, the Secretary shall disseminate to stakeholders best practices for protecting children and adults in educational settings. The first best practices disseminated pursuant to the preceding sentence shall include any best practices for protecting children and adults in educational settings identified through the study under subsection (a).
(d)
Definition
In this section, the term
emergency period
has the meaning given to such term in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1320bГўВҖВ“5(g)(1)(B)
).
