1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Diplomatic Personnel Modernization Act
.
2.
Five-year staffing plan for the Department of State
(a)
In general
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a comprehensive five-year strategic staffing plan for the Department of State.
(b)
Components
The staffing plan required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A dataset displaying comprehensive workforce data for all current and planned employees of the Department of State, disaggregated by the following:
(A)
Foreign Service officer and Foreign Service specialist rank.
(B)
Civil service job skill code, grade level, and bureau of assignment.
(C)
Contracted employees, including the equivalent job skill code and bureau of assignment.
(D)
Employees hired under schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, including the equivalent grade and job skill code and bureau of assignment of such employee.
(2)
Recommendations on the number of Foreign Service officers, disaggregated by service cone that should be posted at each foreign mission of the United States.
(3)
A Department of State end-strength number for both civil service and Foreign Service officers.
(c)
Updates
The dataset required under subsection (b)(1) shall be maintained and updated on a regular basis.
(d)
Contracting authority
The Secretary of State may contract with a private sector entity to assist in completing the staffing plan required under subsection (a) if, not later than 15 days before entering into such a contract, the Secretary notifies the appropriate congressional committees of the intent to enter into such a contract.
(e)
Definition
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
(2)
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
(3)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(4)
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
