1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cultivating Learning Assistance for Student Success Act
.
2.
Autism and Apraxia Grant Pilot Program
(a)
In General
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a pilot program under which the Secretary shall award grants to public or private secondary schools to benefit students with autism or apraxia in accordance with subsection (c).
(b)
Applications
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a secondary school shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Requirements
A secondary school that receives a grant under this section shall use the funds to—
(1)
provide assistive technology devices and assistive technology service to students with autism or apraxia;
(2)
create a program to provide individual support and services for the academic and social inclusion of students with autism or apraxia in academic courses and extracurricular activities provided by the secondary school; and
(3)
not later than 180 days after the date on which a secondary school receives such grant, seek a partnership with one or more local educational agencies licensed in the respective State to support the participation of students in the program under paragraph (2).
(d)
Grant Duration and Amount
(1)
Duration
Each grant under this section shall be made for a period of 1 year.
(2)
Amount
The Secretary shall determine the maximum amount of each grant under this section.
(e)
Supplement, Not Supplant
A secondary school shall use a grant received under this section only to supplement funds that would, in the absence of such grant, be made from other Federal, State, or local sources for activities supported by the grant, not to supplant such funds.
(f)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date on which the pilot program under subsection (a) is completed, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report on such pilot program, including a detailed description of grants awarded under the pilot program and an evaluation of the pilot program.
(g)
Termination of Pilot Program
The pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
ESEA Terms
The terms
secondary school
,
Secretary
, and
local educational agency
have the meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(2)
IDEA Terms
The terms
assistive technology device
,
assistive technology service
, and
child with a disability
have the meanings given the terms in section 602 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (
20 U.S.C. 1401
).
(3)
Student with autism or apraxia
The term
student with autism or apraxia
means a child with a disability who has autism or apraxia.
(i)
Amendment to definition of child with a disability
Section 602(3)(A)(i) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (
20 U.S.C. 1401(3)(A)(i)
) is amended by inserting
apraxia,
after
autism,
.
