1.
Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities in Lebanon That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Congress has the sole power to declare war under article I, section 8 of the Constitution.
(2)
Section 2(c) of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1544(c)
) states that,
The constitutional powers of the President as Commander-in-Chief to introduce United States Armed Forces into hostilities, or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, are exercised only pursuant to (1) a declaration of war, (2) specific statutory authorization, or (3) a national emergency created by attack upon the United States, its territories or possessions, or its armed forces.
.
(3)
Congress has not declared war with respect to, or provided any specific statutory authorization for, United States military participation in the military action by Israel in Lebanon, and the United States has not designated any actor inside Lebanon under any authorization for use of military force.
(4)
Section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1544(c)
) states that,
at any time that United States Armed Forces are engaged in hostilities outside the territory of the United States, its possessions and territories without a declaration of war or specific statutory authorization, such forces shall be removed by the President if the Congress so directs by concurrent resolution
.
(5)
Section 8(c) of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1547(c)
) defines the introduction of United States Armed Forces to include
the assignment of members of such armed forces to command, coordinate, participate in the movement of, or accompany the regular or irregular military forces of any foreign country or government when such military forces are engaged, or there exists an imminent threat that such forces will become engaged, in hostilities
, and activities that the members of the United States Armed Forces have conducted in support of Israel’s air campaign in Lebanon fall within this definition.
(6)
No specific statutory authorization for the use of United States Armed Forces with respect to the military action by Israel in Lebanon has been enacted, and no provision of law explicitly authorizes the assignment of United States Armed Forces to command, coordinate, participate in the movement of, or accompany the regular or irregular military forces of Israel in hostilities within Lebanon’s borders.
(b)
Removal of armed forces
Pursuant to section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1544(c)
), Congress hereby directs the President to remove United States Armed Forces from hostilities in Lebanon not later than 7 days after the date of the adoption of this concurrent resolution unless and until a declaration of war or specific authorization for such use of the United States Armed Forces has been enacted into law.
