CALIFORNIA, HAWAII, and DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of July 11, 1919, 41 Stat. 131, 132, and otherwise, and in the interest of the national defense, it is ordered that the following interchange of property between the War Department and the Navy Department be, and it is hereby, made:

1. The following-described areas of government-owned land, including existing construction end permanent installations, are hereby set apart and assigned to the uses and purposes of naval reservations under the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy:

(a) North Island, in the Harbor of San Diego, California.

(b) Ford Island, in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.

(c) That part of a tract of reclaimed land located at Anacostia, District of Columbia, more particularly described in the act of June 5, 1920, 41 Stat. 948, 954, as Bolling Field, Sections A and B, in the District of Columbia on the east side of the Anacostia River extending from the Giesboro point upstream to the outfell sewer at Popler Point lying between the Anacostia River seawall and the original high-water shoreline on the east, the metes and bounds of which shall be determined and be acceptable to the Army and the Navy.

2. The following-described area of government-owned land, including existing construction and permanent installations, is hereby set apart and assigned to the uses and purposes of on army reservation under the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of War:

Naval Air Station, Sunnyvale, California.

The area of North Island known as Rockwell Field, which was acquired for use for national defense under the act of July 27, 1917, 40 Stat. 247 (10 U.S.C. sec. 1343), with the installations and facilities thereon, shall be vacated by the Army as soon as practicable, it being understood that this evacuation will not include fixed harbor defense installations now located thereon. The areas on Ford Island known as Luke Field, which was transferred to and placed under the control and jurisdiction of the War Department for use for military purposes by the act of August 29, 1916, 39 Stat. 568, with the installations and facilities thereon, shall be vacated by the Army as soon as practicable after new facilities have been provided elsewhere for its use. That part of the area, the metes and bounds of which shall be determined and be acceptable to the Army and the Navy, at Anacostia, District of Columbia, known as Bolling Field as described in the said act of June 5, 1920, with the installations and facilities thereon, shall be vacated by the Army as soon as practicable after the new facilities on the adjoining ares are sufficiently advanced to meet its requirements. The Naval Air Station, Sunnyvale, California, with the installations and facilities thereon, shall be vacated by the Navy as soon as practicable, it being understood that the lighter-than-air hangar and operating facilities thereon are not to be dismantled unless hereafter specifically authorized by the President.
