Executive Order  —Delegating to the Secretary of   To Order Certain Members of   of   and To Prescribe Regulations Governing the Appointment, Reappointment, and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 hereof, there is hereby delegated to the Secretary of   (a) the authority vested in the President by subsection 4 (a) of the act of  , 64 Stat. 826, as amended by section 3 of the act of  , Public Law 84,    , to prescribe regulations with respect to the appointment, reappointment, and promotion of any person liable for induction under the act of  , as amended, or any member of a reserve component who has been or shall be ordered to active duty on or before  , as a physician, dentist, or in an allied specialist category in the armed forces (including  ) of  ; and (b) the authority vested in the President by subsection 4 (c) of the said act of  , as amended by section 3 of the said act of  , to order to active duty in the armed forces of  , with or without their consent, those members of the reserve components of the armed forces of   who are registered under section 4 (i) of   (64 Stat. 826), as amended, and those persons who would be, but for such membership, liable for registration under the provisions of the said section 4 (i), as amended.

2. Persons ordered to active duty in the armed forces of   pursuant to subsection 4 (c) of the said act of  , as amended, shall, so far as practicable, be ordered to active duty in accordance with the priorities established under subsection 4 (i) of   (64 Stat. 826), as amended by the said act of  . The period of active duty that any such person may be required to perform shall not exceed (a)   if he has had   of active service, as defined in paragraphs 4 (i) (4) and (5) of  , as amended; (b)   if he has had at least nine but   of such service; (c)   if he has had at least twelve but   of such service; and (d)   If he has had at least fifteen or more months of such service; since  , but prior to the date of his order to active duty under subsection 4 (c) of the said act of  , as amended.

3. So much of the said authority of the President as relates to members of   may be exercised by the Secretary of the   when   is operating as a service In  .

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
