Executive Order  —Further Providing for the Administration of the Defense Production Act of  , as Amended
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) Except in instances wherein the provisions concerned have heretofore been or are hereby revoked or otherwise made inapplicable, and except for any references which have heretofore been eliminated by amendment, each reference to   in any prior Executive order, including the reference to him in section 2 (e) of Executive Order No. 10200 of   (16 F.R. 63), and each reference to   in any prior Executive order, are hereby amended to refer to the Director of Defense Mobilization and  , respectively.

(b) All records, property, personnel, and funds of   shall be transferred, consonant with applicable law, to  .

(c) Section 1 of Executive Order No. 10200 of   (16 F.R.  ), is hereby revoked. Notwithstanding such revocation, boards, committees, other subordinate agencies, and positions established thereunder shall be continued under the jurisdiction of the Director of Defense Mobilization unless and until other disposition thereof is made by him.

 . 2. Section 401 (a) of Executive Order No.   of   (15  ), is hereby amended to read as follows:

" . 401. (a) There is hereby created a new and independent agency to be known as  , hereafter in this Part referred to as the  . There shall be at the head of  , hereafter in this Part referred to as the Administrator. The Director of Defense Mobilization (provided for in Executive Order No.   of   (15 F.R. 9031)) shell, ex officio, and without additional compensation, be the Administrator."

  3. All orders, regulations, rulings, certificates, directives, and other actions relating to any function affected by this   order shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under proper authority.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
