Executive Order  —Tariff of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1745 of the Revised Statutes of  , as amended, (22 U.S.C.  ), it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Officers of   shall charge and collect for official services performed abroad fees as prescribed in the following schedule, designated as    .

 . 2. No fees other than those prescribed in the foregoing  , or fees prescribed by or pursuant to an act of  , shall be charged or collected by officers of   for official services performed abroad.

 . 3. All fees shall be collected in the coin of   or at its representative value in exchange.

 . 4. All fees shall be paid in advance: Provided, That in case the service is performed elsewhere than at a   office, or in case the amount to be charged cannot be determined until the service is performed, the amount of the fee shall be carefully estimated, and the estimated amount of the fee shall be deposited with the officer before the service is performed, subject to refundment of any sum in excess of the amount chargeable under the foregoing  .

 . 5. Notwithstanding section 1 of this order, no fees prescribed in the foregoing   shall be charged or collected by consular officers for official services to   vessels and seamen. The term "  vessels" as used herein shall not include undocumented   vessels; and the fees prescribed in the said   shall be charged and collected for official services performed for such undocumented vessels.

 . 6. In addition to the fees prescribed in the said  , transportation and other incidental costs actually and necessarily incurred by officers of   performing services elsewhere than at a   office, shall be collected from the persons requesting the performance of such services. Such collections shall not be considered as part of the official fees but shall be recorded as deposit funds and accounted for as such, with full identifying data on vouchers and records, including the number, date, and nature of the service in connection with which the expenses are incurred, and the names of the interested parties.

 . 7. To the extent that they have not heretofore been revoked or superseded, Executive Orders No. 7968 of  , No. 6297 of  , No. 9303 of  , No. 9407 of  , No.   of  , No. 9591 of July 21, 1945, No.   of  , No. 10473 of  , and No.   of   are hereby revoked; and all other prior   inconsistent with this   are hereby amended accordingly.

 . 8. This   shall become effective on  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
