Executive Order  —Establishing   on  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1 Establishment and composition of  . There is hereby established a   which shall be known as   on  , and which shall be composed of a Chairman and six other members, all of whom shall be designated by the President. The Chairman and members shall receive such compensation as the President shall hereafter fix.

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. The   is authorized and directed to make a comprehensive survey and appraisal of the structure, scope, and administration of the laws of   providing pension, compensation, and related nonmedical benefits to veterans and their dependents, and it shall make recommendations to the President regarding policies which, in its judgment, should guide the granting of such benefits in the future. The   shall give particular attention to:

(a) Changes in basic military, social, fiscal, and economic factors in our society affecting the role of these benefits.

(b) The conditions under which benefits should be provided to different categories of veterans.

(c) The relationship of various veterans' benefits to each other, to benefits for persons still in the military service, and to the broader social security and other benefits which are provided to persons without regard to their status as veterans.

 . 3. Procedures of the Commission. In performing its functions under this order, the   may prescribe such rules of procedure, and may hold such public hearings and hear such witnesses as it may deem appropriate.

 . 4. Cooperation of Federal agencies. All executive departments and agencies of   are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   in its work and to furnish the   such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its functions.

 . 5. Staff. There shall be an Executive Director of the  , who shall be appointed by the Chairman of the   after consultation with the other members of the  , and such appointment may be without regard to the civil-service laws. Within the limits of such funds as may be made available, other persons may be employed by or under the authority of the  , and such employment may be without regard to the civil-service laws. The Executive Director and other persons employed by the   shall receive such compensation as the   shall hereafter fix. Subject to the direction of the Chairman of the  , the Executive Director shall direct the activities of all persons employed by the  , supervise the preparation of the report provided for under section 7 of this order, and perform such other duties as the Chairman of the   shall designate.

 . 6. Financing of the Commission. During  , the expenditures of the   shall be paid out of an allotment made by the President from the appropriation entitled "Emergency Fund for the President—National Defense" in Title I of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act,   (Public Law 428, 83rd  , approved  ). Such payments shall be made without regard to the following: section 3681 of the Revised Statutes of   (31 U.S.C. 672); section 9 of the act of  , 35 Stat.   (31 U.S.C. 673); and such other laws as the President may hereafter specify.

 . 7. Report to the President. The   shall make a final written report, including findings and recommendations, to the President pursuant to section 2 hereof not later than November 1, 1955. The   may also make such earlier progress reports to the President as it may deem appropriate. The   shall cease to exist   after making its final report to the President.

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
