Executive  —Amendment of Executive Order  , Relating to Safeguarding Official Information in the Interests of the Defense of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , and deeming such action necessary in the best interest of the national security, it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 2 of Executive Order No. 10501 of  , is amended to read as follows:

" . 2. Limitation of authority to classify. The authority to classify defense information or material under this order shall be limited in the departments, agencies, and other units of the executive branch as hereinafter specified.

"(a) In the following departments, agencies, and   units, having primary responsibility for matters pertaining to national defense, the authority for original classification of information or material under this order may be exercised by the head of the department, agency, or   unit concerned or by such responsible officers or employees as he, or his representative, may designate for that purpose. The delegation of such authority to classify shall be limited as severely as is consistent with the orderly and expeditious transaction of Government business.

 

President's   of   of the Treasury

 

Canal Zone Government

Council on Foreign Economic Policy

Development Loan Fund

Federal Aviation Agency

 

 

National Aeronautics and Space Council

President's  

 

 

"(b) In the following departments, agencies, and   units, having partial but not primary responsibility for matters pertaining to national defense, the authority for original classification of information or material under this order shall be exercised only by the head of the department, agency, or   unit without delegation:

 , and  

 

Tennessee Valley Authority

"(c) Any agency or unit of the executive branch not named herein, and any such agency or unit which may be established hereafter, shall be deemed not to have authority for original classification of information or material under this order, except as such authority may be specifically conferred upon any such agency or unit hereafter."

 . 2. My memoranda of  , and   (24 F.R. 3777), and my memorandum of   (25 F.R. 2073), are hereby revoked.

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
