Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and in order to provide for the fullest development and coordination of the aviation policies and activities of Federal agencies, it is ordered as follows:

1. (a)   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), established by Executive Order No.   of  , as amended by Executive Order No. 10360 of  , shall have as members one representative from each of the following-named agencies (hereinafter referred to as member agencies): the executive  ,  ,  , and  , the military departments of the  ,  , and  ,  , and  . The members of the   shall be designated by the respective heads of the member agencies. The President shall name one of the members as Chairman of  . The Director of   and the Director of   shall each designate one representative of his agency as a nonvoting member of the  .

(b) Each officer or body authorized under subparagraph 1 (a) hereof to designate a member of the   shall also designate one or more alternate members, as may be necessary.

(c) The   shall establish procedures to provide for participation, including participation in voting, by a representative of any agency not named in paragraph 1 (a) hereof in connection with such aviation matters as are of substantial interest to that agency.

2. The   shall examine aviation problems and developments affecting more than one member agency; develop and recommend integrated policies to be carried out and actions to be taken by the member agencies or by any other Government agency charged with responsibility in the aviation field; and, to the extent permitted by law, coordinate the aviation activities of such agencies except activities relating to the exercise of quasi-judicial functions.

3. The   shall consult with   interagency boards and committees concerned in any manner with aviation activities; shall consult with the representatives of   to  ; and, where appropriate, shall consult with other international bodies concerned with civil aviation and recommend to   general policy directives and instructions for the guidance of the said representatives.

4. The  , after obtaining the views of the head of each agency concerned, shall submit to the President, together with the said views, (a) such of the  's recommendations on aviation policies as require the attention of the President by reason of their character or importance, (b) those important aviation questions the disposition of which is prevented by the inability of the agencies concerned to agree, and (c) an   report of the  's activities during  , to be submitted not   of the next succeeding  .

5. The heads of the member agencies shall cause their respective agencies to use the facilities of the   in all appropriate circumstances, and, consonant with law, to provide the   with such personnel assistance as may be necessary.

6. This order supersedes Executive Order No.   of  . and Executive Order No. 10360 of  .

7. This order shall not be construed as necessitating the redesignation of members of the  , or the renaming of the Chairman of the  , serving on the date hereof.

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
