Executive Order  —Providing for the Screening of the Ready Reserve of   Under the Provisions of Part II of   of  , as Amended
 
 

By virtue of authority vested in me by section 208 of   of  , as amended by     (66 Stat. 481; 69 Stat. 598) and section 301 of Title 3, U.S. Code, I hereby prescribe the following regulations for continuously screening units and members of  :

1. Members of   who do not meet age requirements or standards of fitness prescribed for active duty assignments by the   concerned shall be transferred to  , upon application placed in   if qualified, or discharged, as appropriate.

2. The following members of   shall be transferred to   unless they execute a written agreement to remain in   for a minimum period of  :

(a) Those who have fulfilled their   obligations.

(b) The following elective and appointive officials:

(1) The Vice President of  ; members of the   and other Presidential appointees requiring   confirmation.

(2) The Governors of the several states, Territories and possessions.

(3) Members of the legislative bodies of  , and of the several states, Territories or possessions.

(4) Judges of the courts of record of   and of the several states, Territories and possessions, and  .

(5) All other officials chosen by the voters of an entire state, Territory or possession.

3. Members of   whose call to active duty in an emergency would result in extreme personal or community hardship as defined by the Secretary of   (and the Secretary of the   with respect to  ) shall, upon request, be transferred to  .

4. Except as hereinafter provided by this paragraph, there shall be transferred to  , in such numbers as are in excess of the requirements of  , those members of   who are principally engaged or employed in critical civilian occupations which are on   issued by the Secretary of  . No person shall be transferred hereunder (a) who possesses a critical military skill as determined by the Secretary of   (and the Secretary of the   with respect to  ), or (b) who volunteers to remain in   and executes a written agreement to remain in such reserve for a minimum period of  .

5. The Secretary of   (and the Secretary of the   with respect to  ) may provide for the transfer from the Ready to   of individuals undergoing apprenticeship training or pursuing academic studies that will qualify them for critical civilian skills.

6. The following members of   not otherwise provided for herein shall be transferred to  :

(a) Individuals who possess military skills in excess of requirements to maintain a proper balance of such skills in  . Due consideration shall be given to maintaining a proper distribution within the grade, rank, and rate structure of  .

(b) Individuals who are not immediately available for active duty, as determined by the   concerned, for reasons not otherwise specified herein.

7. In selecting members of   to be transferred to   who are otherwise equally eligible for transfer under the criteria established herein, the   concerned shall accord preference for transfer in the following order: (a) those who have participated in combat; and (b) those with the least remaining obligated service in  .

8. Pursuant to section 208 (1) of   of  , as amended by   of  , any member of   who has not completed his obligated period of military service in   may be transferred to  , under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of   (or the Secretary of the   with respect to  ), whenever the reason for his transfer to   no longer exists.

9. Transfers to  , discharges and transfers to a retired status of members of   of   and   of  , as a result of screening procedures, shall be made in consonance with   of  , as amended.

10. The Secretary of   (and the Secretary of the   with respect to  ) shall make periodic reports to the President concerning the screening of   in order that such screening may be evaluated in relation to overall manpower mobilization requirements.

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
