Executive Order  —  All Day on   
 

WHEREAS  , the anniversary of the signing of our Declaration of Independence, is a day of deepest significance to our  ; and

WHEREAS it is appropriate that we pause from our labors to mark the beginnings of our heritage of liberty and freedom; and

WHEREAS the anniversary of our  's birth   falls on  , a non-workday for many employees of  , it is appropriate that those employees who do not regularly work on   be given an alternate day in special observance of this anniversary:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) Except as provided in section 2, employees of the several executive departments, independent establishments, and other governmental agencies, including  ,  , and the field services of the respective departments, establishments, and agencies of the Government, whose basic   includes  , and who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday falling within  , shall be excused from duty   on     preceding the Fourth of July; but   shall not be considered a holiday within the meaning of Executive Order No. 10358 of  , or of any statutes so far as they relate to the compensation and leave of employees of  .

(b) Any employee of the several departments, establishments, and agencies mentioned in subsection (a), whose workday (as the term "workday" is defined in section 2(b) of Executive Order No. 10358 of  ) covers portions of   including  .  , and who would ordinarily be excused from work scheduled for the hours of any calendar day on which a holiday falls, shall be excused from work on his entire workday which commences on  , as may be determined by the head of the department, establishment, or agency concerned, or his designee.

 . 2. (a) This order shall not be construed as excusing from duty (i) those employees of  ,  , or other departments, establishments, or agencies who for national security or other public reasons should, in the judgment of the respective heads thereof, be at their posts of duty on  ; or (ii) those employees whose absence from duty on  , would be inconsistent with the provisions of existing law.

(b) This order shall not apply to (i) any employee who receives holiday or premium pay or compensatory time in lieu thereof, for work performed on  , or any part thereof, or (ii) any employee whose basic   includes  , or any part thereof and who is excused from duty without loss of pay or leave on a workday which includes all or part of  .

 . 3. Any employee mentioned in section 1 who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday, but who (i) is not excused from duty   on  , or from duty on a workday which includes portions of  , or (ii) whose basic   does not include  , or any portion thereof, shall be excused from duty, without charge to leave or loss of pay, on one other workday in  , at such time as may be requested by the employee and approved by the head of the department, agency, or establishment concerned or his designee.

 . 4. This order shall not be construed as providing a basis for granting holiday, premium, or overtime pay for  , or any portion of  . Heads of the respective departments, agencies, and establishments are requested to arrange their affairs in a manner which will permit them to excuse employees from duty on  , or to grant compensatory time in lieu thereof, without the need for additional appropriations.

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
