Executive Order  —Further Amendment of Executive Order No.  , Relating to the Performance of Certain Functions Affecting  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered that Executive Order No. 10289 of  , headed "Providing for the Performance of Certain Functions of the President by the Secretary of the  " (3 CPR, ch. II), as amended by Executive Order No.   of   (3 CPR, ch. II), be, and it is hereby, further amended by amending the first proviso of subparagraph (f) of paragraph 1 thereof, and by deleting the second proviso of that subparagraph, so that the said subparagraph (f), in its entirety, will hereafter read as follows:

"(f) The authority vested in the President by section 4228 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (46 U.S.C. 141), (1) to declare that—upon satisfactory proof being given by the government of any foreign nation that no discriminating duties of tonnage or imposts are imposed or levied in the ports of such nation upon vessels wholly belonging to citizens of  , or upon the produce, manufactures, or merchandise imported in the same from   or from any foreign country—the foreign discriminating duties of tonnage and impost within   are suspended and discontinued, so far as respects the vessels of such foreign nation, and the produce, manufactures, or merchandise imported into   from such foreign nation, or from any other foreign country, and (2) to suspend in part the operation of section 4219 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (46 U.S.C. 121), and section IV, J, subsection 1 of the act of  ,  , 38 Stat. 195, as amended (46 U.S.C. 146), so that foreign vessels from a country Imposing partial discriminating tonnage duties upon   vessels, or partial discriminating import duties upon   merchandise, may enjoy in our ports the identical privileges which the same class of   vessels and merchandise may enjoy in such country: Provided, that prior to the issuance of an order of the Secretary of the   suspending and discontinuing (wholly or in part) discriminating tonnage duties, imposts, and Import duties within  ,   shall obtain and furnish to the Secretary of the   the proof required by the said section  , as amended, as the basis for that order."

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
