Executive Order  —Permitting Certain Employees To Be Given Career or  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403) and section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of   (5 TJ.S.C. 631), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) Except as provided by subsection (b) of this section and by section 4 hereof, any employee of   or of   who on the date of this order is serving in a position in the competitive service under an indefinite appointment or a temporary appointment without a definite time limitation may have his appointment converted to a career or career-conditional appointment: Provided, that such employee—

(i) shall have completed   of continuous service immediately preceding the date of this order in a competitive position or positions;

(ii) shall be recommended for the benefits of this order by his agency within   after the date of this order;

(iii) shall have completed, prior to the date of recommendation by his agency, a total of continuous or intermittent satisfactory service aggregating not   in a competitive position or positions;

(iv) during  , and ending on the date of this order, shall have passed a qualifying examination for a position in the competitive service in which he served during such period, or shall meet such noncompetitive examination standards as   shall prescribe with respect to the position held at the time of the agency recommendation for conversion of his appointment; and

(v) shall meet the requirements prescribed by   under section 5 of this order.

(b) The requirements of paragraphs (i) and (iii) of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to substitute employees of  . In lieu of such requirements, any such employee, during   of the   period ending on the date that conversion of his appointment is recommended, shall have been paid for at least 700 hours of satisfactory work in a competitive position or positions for which the salary is fixed by   of  , as amended (39 U.S.C. 951-1038). The conversion of the appointment of a substitute employee shall be effected only as career substitute vacancies are available, under applicable law, in  .

 . 2. For the purposes of section 1 hereof (a) "status-quo" employees shall be considered as serving under indefinite appointments, and (b) "service" shall include military service if the employee shall have left a competitive position to enter the armed forces of   and shall have been re-employed in a competitive position within   after discharge under honorable conditions.

 . 3. Any person who left a competitive position to enter the armed forces of   who would meet the requirements of section 1 except for absence in the armed forces on the date of this order and who is reemployed by an agency in a competitive position within   after discharge from the armed forces under honorable conditions may have his appointment converted If he is recommended by such agency within   after his reemployment and qualifies in such examination as   may prescribe.

 . 4. This order shall not apply to postmasters or rural carriers, or to employees serving under overseas limited appointments of indefinite or fixed duration.

 . 5.   may prescribe such regulations as may be necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
