Executive Order  —Delegating and Transferring Certain Functions and Affairs to  . 3 of 1953
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, including the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.   and the Director of   provided for in Reorganization Plan No. 3 of   are hereby made in all respects the successors, respectively, of   and the Director of Defense Mobilization provided for in Executive Order No.   of   (15 F.R. 9031).

  2. (a) Except in instances wherein the provisions concerned are for any reason inapplicable as of the effective date of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of  , (1) each reference in any prior Executive order to the Director of Defense Mobilization is hereby amended to refer to the Director of   provided for in Reorganization Plan No. 3 of  , and (2) each reference in any prior Executive order to   shall hereafter be deemed to be a reference to   established by Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1953.

(b) Without limiting the application of section 2 (a) of this order, the amendments made thereby shall apply subject to the provisions of the said section 2 (a), to prior references to the Director of Defense Mobilization and   in the following Executive orders:

Executive Order No.   of   (15  ), as amended.

Executive Order No. 10200 of   (16 F.R.  ), as amended, Including particularly section 2 (e) thereof.

Executive Order No.   of   (16 F.R.  ).

Executive Order No.   of   (16 F.R. 2543).

Executive Order No. 10269 of   (16 F.R.  ).

Executive Order No.   of   (16 F.R. 8789).

Executive Order No.   of   (16  ).

Executive Order No.   of   (16 F.R.  ).

Executive Order No.   of   (18 F.R. 761).

Executive Order No. 10438 of   (18 F.R.  ).

Executive Order No.   of   (18 F.R. 3083).

 . 3. All records, property, personnel, and funds of   established by Executive Order No.   shall be transferred, consonant with applicable law, to   provided for in Reorganization Plan No. 3 of  .

  4. All orders, regulations, rulings, certificates, directives, and other actions relating to any function affected by this   order shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under proper authority.

  5.   established by Executive Order No.  , including the office of Director of Defense Mobilization established by the said Executive order, is hereby abolished. The functions conferred upon the said Director by the said Executive order shall hereafter be functions of the Director of   provided for in Reorganization Plan No. 3 of  .

  6. The provisions of this   order shall become effective when the first Director of   appointed under Reorganization Plan No. 3 of   enters upon office as such Director.

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
