Executive Order  —Designating  , as the Day For Dedication of the Memorial to Major General   and   on the Isthmus of Panama From Duty on That Day
 
 

WHEREAS the  , by act of  , 49 Stat. 743, authorized the President, through such person or persons as he might designate, to cause to be erected within the Canal Zone a suitable memorial to Major General   in commemoration of his signally distinguished services in connection with the construction and operation of the Panama Canal, and, by acts of  , 50 Stat. 515, 520, and  , 53 Stat. 626, 642, appropriated the necessary funds for such purpose; and

WHEREAS the   designated by the President to secure the erection of such memorial has reported the completion of its work; and

WHEREAS   is the 40th anniversary of the appointment of   as first Governor of the Panama Canal, the 47th anniversary of his appointment as Chairman and Chief Engineer of  , and the 50th anniversary of the taking over of the construction of the Panama Canal by  ; and

WHEREAS it is appropriate that the memorial to   be dedicated with suitable ceremonies and observances:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1.  , is hereby designated as   for the dedication of the memorial erected within the Canal Zone in honor of Major General  , and the Governor of the Canal Zone may arrange for suitable ceremonies in connection with such dedication.

2. All officers and employees of   on the Isthmus of  , except those who may for special public reasons be excluded from the provisions of this order by the heads of their respective departments, establishments, or agencies, or those whose absence from duty would be inconsistent with the provisions of existing law, shall be excused from duty on  ; and   shall be considered a holiday on the Isthmus of   within the meaning of Executive Order No. 10358 of  , and of all statutes so far as they relate to the compensation and leave of employees of  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
