Executive Order  —Providing for the Performance of Certain Functions Vested in or   to the Approval of the President
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code (65 Stat. 713), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

PART I. DIRECTOR OF THE BUREAU OF THE BUDGET

SECTION 1. The Director of   is hereby designated and empowered to perform the following-described functions without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:

(a) The authority vested in the President by section 10 of the act of  , ch. 212, 47 Stat.  , as amended by section 6 of the act of  , ch. 744, 60 Stat. 808 (5 U.S.C.  ), to prescribe regulations with respect to the certification required in connection with allowances for transportation exceeding the lowest first-class rate by the transportation facility used in such transportation.

(b) The authority vested in the President by sections 1 (a) and 1 (b) of the act of  , ch. 744, 60 Stat. 806, 807 (5 U.S.C. 73b-1 (a), 73b-1 (b)), to prescribe regulations (1) with respect to the allowance and payment from   funds of the expenses of travel of any civilian officer or employee of the   transferred from one official station to another for permanent duty, the expenses of transportation of his immediate family (or commutation thereof), and the expenses of transportation, packing, crating, temporary storage, drayage, and unpacking of his household goods and personal effects; and (2) with respect to reimbursement to such officer or employee on a commuted basis in lieu of the payment of actual expenses of transportation, packing, crating, temporary storage, drayage, and unpacking of his household goods and personal effects in the case of such transfers between points in continental  .

(c) The authority vested in the President by section 7 of the act of  , ch. 744, 60 Stat. 808 (5 U.S.C. 73b-3), to prescribe regulations with respect to the availability of appropriations for the departments for expenses of travel of new appointees, expenses of transportation of their immediate families and expenses of transportation of their household goods and personal effects from places of actual residence at time of appointment to places of employment outside the continental  , and for such expenses on return of employees from their posts of duty outside the continental   to the places of their actual residence at time of assignment to duty outside  .

(d) The authority vested in the President by section 1 of the act of  , ch. 551, 54 Stat. 743 (5 U.S.C.  ), to prescribe regulations with respect to the payment on the death of a civilian officer or employee of   (1) of the expenses of preparing and transporting the remains when the death of the officer or employee occurs while in travel status in   or while performing official duties in a territory or possession of   or in a foreign country or in transit thereto or therefrom, and (2) of the transportation expenses of his dependents, including expenses incurred in packing, crating, drayage, and transportation of household effects and other personal property, to his former home or such other place as the head of the department shall determine when the death of the officer or employee occurs while in travel status or while performing official duties as set forth in item (1) of this paragraph.

(e) The authority vested in the President by section 407 of the National Security Act of  , as added by the act of  , ch. 412,  . 11,   Stat. 585 (5 U.S.C.   (a)), to approve the transfers of balances of appropriations provided for in the said section 407.

(1) The authority vested in the President by the last sentence of paragraph (c) of section 32 of Title III of the act of  , ch. 517, 50 Stat. 525, as amended (7 U.S.C.  ), to transfer to other  , or Territorial agencies lands acquired by the Secretary of Agriculture under section 32 (a) of the said act.

(g) The authority vested in the President by section 45 of Title IV of the act of  , ch. 517, 50 Stat. 530, as amended by the act of  , ch. 964, 60 Stat.   and   (7 U.S.C.  ), and as limited with respect to Title III of the act of  , to transfer any right, interest or title held by   in any lands acquired in the program of national defense and no longer needed therefor, and to determine the suitability of the lands to be transferred, for the purposes referred to in said section 45; and to transfer for the purposes of Title III of the said act, any right, interest or title held by   in any lands under the supervision of the Secretary of  , as provided by section 45 of the said act of  .

(h) The authority vested in the President by section 4 (k) of   of  , as amended, 55 Stat. 599 (16 U.S.C. 831c (k)), to approve transfers under paragraphs (a) and (c) thereof, other than leases for terms of   and conveyances of property having a value not in excess of $500.

(i) The authority vested in the President by section 7 (b) of   of  , ch.  , 48 Stat. 63 (16 U.S.C. 831f (b)), to provide for the transfer to   of the use, possession, and control of real or personal property of   deemed by the Director of   to be necessary and proper for the purposes of the   as stated in the said Act.

(j) The authority vested in the President by section 1 of the act of  , ch. 505, 44 Stat.   (20 U.S.C. 191), to transfer to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture for the purposes of said act any land belonging to   within or adjacent to   located along the Anacostia River north of Benning Bridge.

(k) The authority vested in the President by section 202 of   of  , ch. 946, 64 Stat. 838 (31 U.S.C. 581c), to approve the transfers of balances of appropriations provided for in subsections (a) and (b) of the said section 202.

(1) So much of the authority vested in the President by the last sentence of section 11 of the act of  , ch. 270, 43 Stat. 463 (as renumbered by  . 2 of, and as amended by, the act of  , ch. 949, 66 Stat. 781, et seq.), as consists of authority to approve the designation of lands to be acquired by condemnation and of authority to approve contracts for purchase of lands.

(in) The authority vested in the President by section 1 of the act of  , ch.  ,   Stat.   (40 U.S.C.  ), to approve contracts for acquisition of land subject to limited rights reserved to the grantor and for the acquisition of limited permanent rights in land adjoining park property.

(n) The authority vested in the President by section 108 of the Housing Act of  , ch. 338, 63 Stat. 419 (42 U.S.C.  ), to transfer, or cause to be transferred, to   any right, title or interest held by   or any department or agency thereof in any land (including buildings thereon) which is surplus to the needs of the   and which a local public agency certifies will be within the area of a project being planned by it.

PART H. THE UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

 . 2.   is hereby designated and empowered to perform the following-described functions without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:

(a) So much of the authority vested in the President by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of   (5 U.S.C. 631) as relates to establishing regulations for the conduct of persons in the civil service.

(b) The authority vested in the President by section 3 (b) of   of  , as amended by section 3 of the act of  , ch. 16,  . 15 (5 U.S.C. 693 (b)), to exclude from the operation of the said   any officer or employee or group of officers or employees in the executive branch of the service whose tenure of office or employment is intermittent or of uncertain duration.

(c) So much of the authority vested in the President by section 204 of the act of  , ch. 314, 47 Stat. 404 (5 U.S.C.  ), to exempt from automatic separation from the service persons who are reaching the prescribed retirement age when the public interest so requires as relates to persons other than Presidential appointees.

(d) The authority vested in   by section 605 of the act of  , ch. 212, 59 Stat. 304 (5 U.S.C. 945), to issue regulations necessary for the administration of that act insofar as it affects officers and employees in or under the executive branch of the Government.

 . 3. The Chairman of   is hereby designated and empowered, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 505 (b) of the Classification Act of  , ch. 782, 63 Stat. 959, as amended (5 U.S.C.   (b)), to place positions in, and to remove positions from,   of the General   established by that act, exclusive of positions in the  's own organization.

PART III.  

 . 4.   is hereby designated and empowered to perform the following-described functions without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:

(a) The authority vested in the said Administrator by section 102 (e) of the Housing Act of  , ch. 338, 63 Stat. 415 (42 U.S.C.   (e)), to issue and have outstanding obligations for purchase by the Secretary of the  .

(b) The authority vested in the said Administrator by section 103 (b) of the said act (42 U.S.C.   (b)) to contract to make capital grants with respect to projects assisted under Title I of the said act.

(c) The authority vested in the President by sections 6 (d) and 10 (e) of the act of  , ch. 896, 50 Stat. 888, as affected by Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1947 (61 Stat. 954) and as amended (42 U.S.C.   (d) and   (e)), to approve the undertaking by   of any   contribution, grant, or loan or any contract for any   contribution, grant, or loan, under said act.

(d) The authority vested in the President by section 14 of the said act, as affected by said   and as amended (42 U.S.C.  ), to approve the amending or superseding of any contract for   contributions or loans, or both, so that the going Federal rate on the basis of which such   contributions or the interest rate on the loans, or both, respectively, are fixed shall mean the going Federal rate on the date of approval of the amending or superseding contract entered into by  .

(e) The authority vested in the President by section 5 of the act of  , ch. 860, 49 Stat.  , as affected by Executive Order No. 7732 of  , and by the said  , to approve the dedication by   of streets, alleys, and parks for public use, and the granting by the said Commissioner of easements, in connection with any low-cost housing or slum-clearance project described in that act.

PART IV.  

 . 5. (a)   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, all authority vested in the President by the act of  , ch. 12, 42 Stat. 8 (47 U.S.C.  , inclusive), including the authority to issue, withhold, or revoke licenses to land or operate submarine cables in  : Provided, That no such license shall be granted or revoked by the   except after obtaining approval of the Secretary of   and such advice from any executive department or establishment of the Government as the   may deem necessary. The   is authorized and directed to receive all applications for the said licenses.

(b) Executive Order No. 3513 of  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , is hereby revoked.

PART V. THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND THE ADMINISTRATOR OF GENERAL SERVICES

 . 6. The Attorney General and   are hereby designated and empowered jointly to perform the following-described functions without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:

(a) The authority vested in the President by section 5 (a) of the act of  , ch. 417, 49 Stat. 501, as amended (44 U.S.C. 305 (a)), to determine from time to time the documents or classes of documents having general applicability and legal effect.

(b) The authority vested in the President by sections 6,   (a), and 11 (f) of said act, as amended (44 U.S.C. 306; 311 (a); and 311 (f)), to approve (or disapprove), respectively, (1) regulations, prescribed by  , for carrying out the provisions of that act (including the regulations referred to in section 5 (b) of the act, authorizing publication in   of certain documents or classes of documents), (2) actions of   requiring, from time to time, the preparation and publication in special or supplemental editions of   of complete codifications of the documents, described in the said section 11 (a), of each agency of the Government, and (3) regulations, prescribed by  , for carrying out the provisions of section 11 of the said act, as amended.

PART VI. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 . 7. All actions heretofore taken by the President in respect of the matters affected by this order and in force at the time of the issuance of this order, including any regulations prescribed or approved by the President in respect of such matters, shall, except as they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this order, remain in effect until amended, modified, or revoked pursuant to the authority conferred by this order.

 . 8. As used in this order, the term "functions" embraces duties, powers, responsibilities, authority, or discretion, and the term "perform" may be construed to mean "exercise."

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
