Executive Order 10668—Amendment of Executive Order No.  , of  , Relating to  
 
 

Executive Order No.   of  , relating to  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

" "WHEREAS   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) was organized in   at the request of the President by  , under its congressional charter, as a measure of national preparedness; and

"WHEREAS in recognition of the work accomplished by   through the   in organizing research, in furthering science, and in securing cooperation of government and non-government agencies in the solution of their problems, the   has been perpetuated by the   as requested by the President in Executive Order No.   of  ; and

"WHEREAS the effective prosecution of the  's work requires the close cooperation of the scientific and technical branches of the Government, both military and civil, and makes representation of the Government on the   desirable:

"NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

"1. The functions of the   shall be as follows:

"(a) In general, to stimulate research in the mathematical, physical, and biological sciences, and in the application of these sciences to engineering, agriculture, medicine, and other useful arts, with the object of increasing knowledge, of strengthening the national defense, and of contributing in other ways to the public welfare.

"(b) To survey the broad possibilities of science, to formulate comprehensive projects of research, and to develop effective means of utilizing the scientific and technical resources of the country for dealing with such projects.

"(c) To promote cooperation in research, at home and abroad, in order to secure concentration of effort, minimize duplication, and stimulate progress; but in all cooperative undertakings to give encouragement to individual initiative, as fundamentally important to the advancement of science.

"(d) To serve as a means of bringing   and foreign investigators into active cooperation with the scientific and technical services of   and of the civil branches of the Government.

"(e) To direct the attention of scientific and technical investigators to the importance of military and industrial problems in connection with national defense, and to aid in the solution of these problems by organizing specific researches.

"(f) To gather and collate scientific and technical information, at home and abroad, in cooperation with governmental and other agencies, and to render such information available to duly accredited persons.

"2. The Government shall be represented on the   by members who are officers or employees of specified departments and agencies of the executive branch of the Government.   shall specify, from time to time, the departments and agencies from which Government members shall be designated, and shall determine, from time to time, the number of Government members who shall be designated from each such department and agency. The head of each such specified department or agency shall designate the officers and employees from his department or agency, in such numbers as   shall determine, who shall be members of the  , but shall designate only those persons who are acceptable to the  ."

This order shall not be construed as terminating the tenure of any person who has heretofore been designated as a member of the  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
