Executive Order  —Establishing the President's  
 
 

WHEREAS migratory labor plays an essential part in the  's economy, particularly in agriculture, in jobs of a temporary or seasonal nature; and

WHEREAS a substantial number of workers and their families migrate   to find employment on farms and in rural communities, and perform services in many  ; and

WHEREAS most of such workers are unskilled and have   earnings that are low; travel and housing conditions that are often substandard; limited educational opportunities for their children because of migration; less access to community services than permanent residents; and, because of the   or short-term nature of their employment, have difficulty in accumulating assets adequate for satisfactory living conditions; and

WHEREAS many of the workers and their families are handicapped in seeking economic and social attainments because of the seasonal nature of their employment; and

WHEREAS it is in the national interest to assist such migratory workers and their families in achieving working and living conditions more compatible with those of other workers in the  ; and WHEREAS on  , I established a  , later designated as the President's  , to assume leadership in developing cooperative relations in improving the social and economic welfare of our domestic migratory farm workers; and

WHEREAS, in order that the President's   may be enabled to make even greater progress toward the achievement of its objectives, it is now appropriate to consolidate its accomplishments and to provide for more formal Federal organization for its activities with respect to migratory labor programs, and with continuing recognition of the responsibility of the individual States in the field of migratory labor:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) There Is hereby established, subject to the provisions of this order, the President's   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), which shall be composed of the Secretary of  , who shall be Chairman of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  , and  .

(b) To assure effective functioning of the   and uninterrupted participation of each department and agency represented on the  , the head of each such department or agency shall designate an appropriate officer or employee of his department or agency as an alternate member to participate in the affairs of the   whenever the member may be absent or otherwise unable to participate.

(c) The   may request the head of any other   or agency to designate a representative to participate in the affairs of the   as desirable in furthering the work of migratory labor programs.

 . 2. The   shall (1) maintain continuing review and assessment of the needs of migrant workers and their families, (2) aid the various Federal agencies in mobilizing, stimulating, and coordinating more effective programs and services for such migrants and in providing services to   and local areas through their constituent agencies, (3) facilitate and encourage the development of actions designed to promote improved living and working conditions of migratory workers, and (4) work with   and other public and non-public agencies in improving the living and working conditions of migratory workers. To these ends the   is empowered to enlist the aid and cooperation of Federal officials,  , local committees,   civic and church groups, and employer and worker organizations.

 . 3. The   represented on the   shall, as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating the provisions of this order, furnish assistance to the  , including detailing of personnel, but excluding transfer of funds, in accordance with section 214 of the act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691), or any other applicable laws.   shall provide necessary space and facilities for the  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
