Executive Order  —  and Related Functions
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Mutual Security Act of  , 68 Stat. 832, as amended (22 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is ordered as follows:

Part I—Assignment Of Functions And Ponds

Section 101.  . (a) Exclusive of the functions otherwise delegated, or excluded from delegation, by this order, and subject to the provisions of this order, there are hereby delegated to the Secretary of   all functions conferred upon the President

(1) by the Mutual Security Act of  , hereinafter referred to as the Act, (2) by   of  , 65 Stat. 644 (22 U.S.C.   et seq.), and (3) by those provisions of acts appropriating funds under the authority of the Act which are wholly or primarily relevant to the Act.

(b) In determining upon the furnishing of assistance*on terms of repayment pursuant to the Act, and upon the amounts and terms of such assistance, the Secretary of   shall consult with   in respect of policies relating to such assistance and terms. The Secretary of   shall also consult the   with respect to policies concerning the utilization of funds in the Special Account provided for in section 142(b) of the Act and concerning such other matters as are within the cognizance of the   pursuant to section 4 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286 et seq.).

(c) In carrying out the functions conferred upon the President by section 414 of the Act, the Secretary of   shall consult with appropriate agencies. Designations, including changes in designations, by the Secretary of   of articles which shall be considered as arms, ammunition, and implements of war, including technical data relating thereto, under that section shall have the concurrence of the Secretary of  .

(d) The maintenance of special missions or staffs abroad, the fixing of the ranks of the chiefs thereof after the chiefs of   diplomatic missions, and the authorization of the same compensation and allowances as the chief of mission, class 3 and class 4, within the meaning of the Foreign Service Act of  , 60 Stat. 999 (22 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), all under section 526 of the Act, shall have the approval of the Secretary of  .

(e) All functions under the Act,   of  , and   of  , 62 Stat. 6 (22 U.S.C.   et seq.), and all functions under those provisions of acts appropriating funds under the authority of the Act which are wholly or primarily relevant to the Act, however vested, delegated, or assigned, shall be subject to the responsibilities of the Secretary of   with respect to the foreign policy of  .

 . 102.  , (a) Subject to the provisions of this order, there are hereby delegated to the Secretary of Defense:

(1) The functions conferred upon the President by Chapter I of the Act, exclusive of (i) those so conferred by section 105(b)(3) thereof, (ii) so much of those so conferred by the third sentence of section 105(b) (4) of the Act as consists of determining that internal security requirements may be the basis for programs of military assistance in the form of services, (iii) so much of those so conferred by the first sentence of section 106(b) of the Act as consists of determining that a nation or international organization may make available the fair value of equipment, materials, or services, sold thereto or rendered therefor, at a time or times other than in advance of delivery of the equipment, materials, or services, and (iv) those reserved to the President by section 110 of this order.

(2) The functions conferred upon the President by sections 142(a) (7) and 511 (c) of the Act.

(3) To the extent that they relate to other functions under the Act administered by  , the functions conferred upon the President by sections 142(a) (10), 505(a), 511 (b), 527(a), 528, 529(a), and 550 of the Act.

(4) The functions conferred upon the President by the fourth and fifth provisos of section 108 of  ,  , 69 Stat. 438.

(b) In carrying out the functions under section 550 of the Act delegated to him by the foregoing provisions of this section, the Secretary of   shall consult with the Secretary of  .

 . 103.  . There is hereby delegated to the Secretary of the   the function conferred upon the President by the fifth sentence of section 505(b) of the Act.

 . 104.  . (a) There is hereby delegated to the Secretary of Commerce so much of the functions conferred upon the President by section 413(b) (1) of the Act as consists of drawing the attention of private enterprise to opportunities for investment and development in other free nations.

(b) The Secretary of   is hereby designated as the officer through whom the functions provided for in the first sentence of section 416 of the Act shall be carried out.

 . 105.  . There are hereby delegated to the Managing Director of  , acting subject to the supervision and direction of the board of directors of  :

(1) So much of the functions conferred upon the President by section 504 (a) of the Act as consists of assisting   small business to participate equitably in the furnishing of commodities and services financed with funds authorized under Title II of Chapter II of the Act.

(2) So much of the functions conferred upon the President by section 527 (a) of the Act as consists of determining such personnel as need be employed by   to carry out the provisions and purposes of the Act.

 . 106. Cost-sharing arrangements. The functions conferred upon the President by section 527(e) of the Act are hereby delegated to the several heads of agencies in respect of any functions under the Act performed by officers and employees of those agencies, respectively.

 . 107. Studies, (a) The Departpartments of State and Commerce and such other agencies as they deem appropriate shall conduct the   studies under section 413 (c) of the Act.

(b)   and such other agencies as it deems appropriate shall conduct the study under section 413 (d) of the Act.

 . 108.  .   shall perform the functions provided for by law with respect to publicizing abroad the activities carried out under the Act.

 . 109. Allocation, advance, and transfer of funds, (a) Funds heretofore or hereafter appropriated or otherwise made available to the President for carrying out the Act shall be deemed to be allocated or advanced without any further action of the President, as follows:

(1) There are allocated to the Secretary of   all funds for carrying out the Act except those made available exclusively for carrying out Chapter I and Title n of Chapter II of the Act.

(2) There are allocated to the Secretary of   funds made available exclusively for carrying out Chapter I of the Act; but, for the purposes of the second sentence of section 108 of  ,  , such funds shall be available only when and in such amounts as they have been apportioned, for use, by  .

(3) Funds for carrying out   of the Act shall be advanced to  .

(b) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and   may allocate or transfer, as appropriate, any funds received under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively, of subsection (a) of this section, to any agency, or part thereof, for obligation or expenditure thereby consistent with applicable law, subject, however, to the provisions of section 110(2) of this order.

(c) The utilization of funds without regard to the existing laws governing the obligation and expenditure of Government funds as authorized by section 411(d) of the Act shall be limited as far as practicable and shall in any event be confined to instances in which such utilization (1) is deemed to further the more economical, efficient, or expeditious carrying out of functions under the Act, or (2) is deemed to obviate or mitigate hardship occurring with respect to personnel administering functions under the Act in connection with the administration of these functions or with respect to the families of personnel by reason of the duties of the respective heads of families under the Act, or (3) is for the purpose of settling any claim arising outside   for money damages against   for injury or loss of property or personal injury or death caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any employee of the   administering functions under the Act while acting within the scope of his office or employment, under circumstances where  , if a private person, would be liable to the claimant in accordance with the law of the place where the act or omission occurred.

 . 110. Reservation of functions to the President. There are hereby excluded from the functions delegated by the foregoing provisions of this order:

(1) The functions conferred upon the President by the Act with respect to the appointment of officers required to be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the  .

(2) The functions conferred upon the President with respect to findings, determinations, certifications, agreements, directives, or transfers of funds, as the case may be, by sections 104(b), 105 (except so much of those functions conferred by the third sentence of section 105(b) (4) as relates to services), 131(a) (proviso), 141, 404, 411(C), 451(a), 501, 521, 522(b), 523(d), and 552 of the Act, and by sections 103(b), 104, 203, and 301 of   of  .

(3) The functions conferred upon the President by sections 101, 107(a)(2), 413(c), 413(d), 502(c), 503(a), 503(b). 523(c), 525, 533, 534(a), and 545(d) Of the Act, by the first sentence of section 144 of the Act, and by the second sentence of section 416 of the Act, and, subject to Part II of this order, the functions so conferred by section 523(b) of the Act.

(4) So much of the functions conferred upon the President by section 403 of the Act as consists of determining any provision of law to be disregarded to achieve the purposes of that section.

(5) The functions conferred upon the President by sections 101(d)(2), 107 (second sentence), 110, and 111 of   and Related Agencies Appropriation Act,   (74 Stat. 778, 779).

Part II—Coordination And Supervision Op Functions AbroadSEC. 201.  . The several Chiefs of the United States Diplomatic Missions in foreign countries, as the representatives of the President and acting on his behalf, shall have and exercise, to the extent permitted by law and in accordance with such instructions as the President may from time to time promulgate, affirmative responsibility for the coordination and supervision over the carrying out by agencies of their functions in the respective countries.

Part III—General Provisions

 . 301.   arrangements. There shall continue to be in  , subject to the direction and control of the Secretary of  , the following:

(1)   (including the offices transferred to the   by the provisions of section 102 (a) of Executive Order No.   of  ) as an agency in  .

(2) All now-existing functions which (i) immediately prior to the effective date of Executive Order No.   of  , were conferred by law upon   or the Director of  , or on agencies or officials of  , and (ii) were by that order transferred to the Secretary of   or  .

(3)   provided for in section 504(b) of the Act and the functions vested in it by law, which functions shall remain therewith.

 . 302. Personnel, (a) The performance of the functions conferred upon the President by section 527(c) of the Act (and by this order delegated to the Secretary of  ) shall be governed by the following:

(1) The authority which the Secretary of   is authorized to exercise with respect to personnel appointed, employed, or assigned to perform functions under the Act shall include (i) the authority available to the Secretary under the Foreign Service Act of   (including section 571 of that Act) relating to   officers,   Staff officers and employees, and alien clerks and employees, (ii) the authority available to the Secretary under any other provision of law pertaining specifically, or generally applicable, to   officers,   Staff officers and employees, and alien clerks and employees, (iii) the authority available to the Secretary under sections   of the Foreign Service Act of  , (iv) with respect to personnel appointed or assigned pursuant to the provisions of section 527(c) (2) of the Act, the authority of   provided for by the Foreign Service Act of  , and (v) the authority to prescribe or issue (in pursuance of the Foreign Service Act of  , the Mutual Security Act of  , or other applicable law) and such regulations, orders, and instructions, not inconsistent with law, as may be incidental to or necessary for or desirable in connection with the carrying out of the provisions of section 527(c) of the Act or the provisions of this order.

(2) The prohibitions and requirements contained in sections   through   and section 1011 of the Foreign Service Act of   shall be applicable to all personnel appointed or assigned under the provisions of that act as authorized herein.

(3) Persons appointed, employed, or assigned after  , under section 527(c) of the Act for the purpose of performing functions under the Act outside   shall not, unless otherwise agreed by the agency in which such benefits may be exercised, be entitled to the benefits provided by section 528 of the Foreign Service Act of   in cases in which their service under the appointment, employment, or assignment exceeds  .

(b) In carrying out the provisions of section 527(c) (1) of the Act, the Secretary of   may authorize any agency to perform any functions specified therein to the extent that they relate to other functions under the Act administered by such agency.

 . 303. Definitions. As used in this order, the word "function" or "functions" embraces duties, powers, responsibilities, authority, and discretion; and the word "agency" or "agencies" embraces any department, agency, board, instrumentality, commission, or establishment of  , and any corporation partly or wholly owned by it.

 . 304. References to acts and orders, (a) Except in respect of any reference which has been or may be revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable, and except as may for any other reason be inappropriate:

(1) References in any part of this order or in any other Executive order to the Mutual Security Act of   or to this order or to any provision of either thereof, and references in this order to the Act or to any other act or to any provision of either thereof, shall be deemed to include references thereto, respectively, as amended from time to time.

(2) References in any prior Executive order not superseded under section 305 (a) of this order to any provisions of any Executive order so superseded (including the reference in section 3 (c) of Executive Order No.   of September 9, 1954 (19 PR.  ), as affected by the provisions of section 303(b) of Executive Order No.  , to Part n of the latter order) shall hereafter be deemed to be references to the corresponding provisions, if any, of this order.

(b) Any reference in this order to provisions of any appropriation act shall be deemed to include a reference to any hereafter-enacted provisions of law which are the same or substantially the same as such appropriation act provisions.

 . 305. Superseded orders, (a) The following-described orders, and parts of order, are hereby superseded:

(1) Executive Order No.   (19 P.R. 7249).

(2) Executive Order No.   of   (20  ).

(3) Executive Order No.   of   (20 PR.  ).

(4) Executive Order No. 10663 of March   (21 P.R. 1845).

(5) Executive Order No.   of   (22 F.R.  ).

(6) Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order No.   of   (24 PR.  ).

(b) The foregoing provisions of this section shall not derogate from the provisions of section 301 of this order.

 . 306. Saving provisions. Except to the extent that they may be inconsistent with this order, all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements, and other actions made, issued, or entered into with respect to any function affected by this order and not revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable before the date of this order, shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
