Executive Order  —Amending   by Adding Rule VIII—Appointments to Overseas Positions
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (5 U.S.C. 631), section 2 of the Civil Service Act of   (22 Stat. 403), and section 3 of   of  , as amended, and in order to facilitate the employment of personnel by Federal agencies for service in foreign countries and beyond the continental limits of  , and to further the objective of extending the competitive service to Federal positions overseas,   are hereby amended by adding Rule VIII reading as follows:

RULE VIII-APPOINTMENTS TO OVERSEAS POSITIONS

 . 8.1 Additional authority of the Commission. In addition to authorizing the recruitment and appointment of persons to overseas positions under regulations issued under the preceding Rules, the   may, by the regulations prescribed by it, authorize the recruitment and appointment of persons to such positions as provided in section 2 of this Rule. As used in this Rule, "overseas positions" means positions in foreign countries and in other areas beyond the continental limits of  , except as provided in section 8.4 hereof.

 . 8.2 Appointment of   citizens.   citizens may be recruited overseas for appointment to overseas positions in the competitive service without regard to the competitive requirements of the Civil Service Act. Persons so recruited who meet the qualification standards and other requirements of the   for overseas positions may be given appointments to be known as "overseas limited appointments." Such appointments shall be of temporary or indefinite duration, and shall not confer the right to acquire a competitive status. The   may authorize overseas limited appointments for   citizens recruited within the continental limits of   whenever it determines that it is not feasible to appoint from a civil-service register. Persons serving under appointments made pursuant to this section are hereby excluded from the operation of   of  , as amended, unless eligible for retirement benefits by continuity of service or otherwise.

 . 8.3 Appointment of persons not citizens of  . Persons who are not citizens of   may be recruited overseas and appointed to overseas positions without regard to the Civil Service Act.

 . 8.4 Positions excepted from the application of this Rule. This Rule shall not apply to positions in  ,  ,  , and  , and on the Isthmus of  .

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
