Executive Order  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   (62 Stat. 604), as amended,

I hereby prescribe the following amendments of   prescribed by Executive Orders No.   of  , No. 10292 of  , No. 10328 of  , No.   of  , No.   of  , and No. 10714 of June 13,  , and constituting portions of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:

1. (a) Sections 1602.5 and 1602.11 of Part  ,  , are amended to read as follows:

§ 1602.5 Governor. The word "Governor" includes, where applicable, the Governor of each of the States of  ,   of  , the Governor of  , the Governor of  , the Governor of  , and the Governor of the Canal Zone.

§ 1602.11 State. The word "State" includes, where applicable, the several States of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and the Canal Zone.

(b) The following new section is added to Part   immediately following § 1602.12:

§ 1602.13 Continental United States. The term "continental  " means   and all of the several States of   except     and  .

2. Section 1604.21 of Part  , Selective Service Officers, is amended to read as follows:

§ 1604.21 Area. In the Canal Zone,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,    ,  , and   constituting one   judicial district, each   Director of   shall establish one appeal board area which shall comprise the entire   or possession. In each   which is divided into two or more Federal judicial districts, except   and  , each   Director of   shall establish for each such district an appeal board area which shall comprise the entire district. The   Director of   for   shall establish for each   judicial district or portion thereof in that   located outside of   an appeal board area which shall comprise the entire district or portion thereof. The   Director of   for   shall establish for each of the   judicial districts located partly within   an appeal board area which shall comprise the entire portion of such district located within  .

3. Section 1621.16 of Part  ,  , is amended to read as follows:

§ 1621.16 Permit to leave  . Local boards are authorized to issue to a registrant a permit to depart from the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or the Canal Zone to any place which is not within any of those areas, and should issue the permit unless it is found that the registrant's absence is likely to interfere with the performance of his obligations under the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended. Such permit shall be issued by the completion of a Permit of   from   (SSS Form No. 300). Before determining whether a permit should be issued, the local board may require the registrant to complete and file his   (SSS Form No. 100) and such other forms and information as may be necessary to complete his classification and may order him for armed forces physical examination. The local board may thereupon classify the registrant if it appears necessary to a determination of the advisability of issuing the permit. No registrant who is in a class available for military service or for civilian work in lieu of induction shall be issued a permit by the local board until after he has been given an armed forces physical examination unless the registrant's absence is to be for so short a period that it will not interfere with the performance of his selective service obligations.

4. Subparagraphs (2) and (4) of paragraph (c) of § 1626.2 of Part  ,   to  , are amended to read as follows:

(2) Within   after the date the local board mails to the registrant a Notice of Classification (SSS Form No. 110), if, on that date, it appears that the registrant is located in one and the local board which classified the registrant is located in another of the following: The continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or the Canal Zone.

(4) Within   after the date the local board mails to the registrant a Notice of Classification (SSS Form No. 110), if, on that date, it appears that the registrant is located outside the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

5. Paragraph (d) of § 1628.14 of Part  ,  , is amended to read as follows:

(d) The local board with which the registrant files such application shall enter its approval in Part 2 of   or Induction (SSS Form No. 230) whenever the registrant is located in one and the registrant's own local board is located in another of the following: The continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or the Canal Zone. The local board shall mail the original and three copies of   or Induction (SSS Form No. 230) by air mail to the registrant's own local board, mail a copy to the registrant, and file the remaining copy.

6. Paragraph (d) of § 1632.9 of Part  ,  , is amended to read as follows:

(d) The local board with which the registrant files such application shall enter its approval in Part 2 of  . or Induction (SSS Form No. 230) whenever the registrant is located in one and the registrant's own local board is located in another of the following: The continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or the Canal Zone. The local board shall mail the original and three copies of   or Induction (SSS Form No. 230) by air mail to the registrant's own local board, mail a copy to the registrant, and file the remaining copy.

7. (a) Paragraph (a) of § 1655.2 of Part  , Registration of United States Citizens Outside of   and Classification of Such Registrants, is amended to read as follows:

(a) Unless he is a person excepted from registration by section 6(a) of  , as amended, every male citizen of   outside the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and the Canal Zone who has not been registered and who on  , had attained or who thereafter shall have attained the eighteenth anniversary of the day of his birth and who on  , had not attained the   anniversary of the day of his birth, is required, on   fixed by Proclamation of the President, to present himself for and submit to registration before

(1) any diplomatic or consular officer of   who is a citizen of  , all of whom are hereby appointed chief registrars; or

(2) any other person who may be appointed by the Director of   as chief registrar; or

(3) any registrar appointed as provided in § 1655.3.

(b) Paragraph (a) of § 1655.4 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

(a) Each person who presents himself for registration under the provisions of the regulations in this part shall be registered on a Registration Questionnaire—Foreign (SSS Form No. 50) which shall be completed by the registrar. Each such person who is registered shall designate for entry on line 2 of his Registration Questionnaire—Foreign (SSS Form No. 50) the address of his place of residence within the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or the Canal Zone or, if he does not have a place of residence in any of such areas, he may nevertheless designate the address of a place in such areas as his place of residence. If any such person fails or refuses to designate for entry on line 2 of his Registration Questionnaire—Foreign (SSS Form No. 50) an address of a place within any of such areas, jurisdiction over him under the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, shall vest in   No. 100 (Foreign).

(c) Paragraph (b) of § 1655.5 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

(b) District of   No. 100 (Foreign) shall have jurisdiction for all purposes under the selective service law over any person who at the time of his registration under the provisions of the regulations in this part does not designate for entry on line 2 of his Regisiration Questionnaire—Foreign (SSS Form No. 50) an address of a place within the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or the Canal Zone.

(d)   (4) of paragraph (b) of § 1655.6 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

(4) Mail the completed   (SSS Form No. 2) to the registrant at his present mailing address as given on line 3 of the Registration Questionnaire—Foreign (SSS Form No. 50); provided, that if such mailing address is outside the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , such form shall be mailed to the Director of Selective Service for transmittal to the registrant.

8. Paragraph (b) of   1660.31 of Part  , Civilian Work in  , is amended to read as follows:

(b) When the civilian work to which a registrant is ordered by the local board in lieu of induction is to be performed at any place outside the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and the Canal Zone, and the registrant has reported for such work, the local board, after classifying the registrant in Class I-W, shall forward the registrant's Cover Sheet (SSS Form No. 101) and contents to the Director of Selective Service. It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Selective Service to see that the registrant performs the work to which he has been ordered by the local board for a period of twenty-four consecutive months, unless sooner released under the provisions of § 1660.21. When the registrant has satisfactorily completed this work, the Director of   shall return the registrant's cover sheet to the local board together with a letter stating that the registrant has satisfactorily completed his work. If the registrant should fail to perform such work, or should otherwise fail to perform his duties under the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, during the time that his cover sheet is in the custody of the Director of  , the Director of   shall determine whether or not the registrant shall be reported to   for prosecution.

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
