Executive Order  —Withholding of Compensation of Certain Civilian Employees of   and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of  , 70 Stat. 283, and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing agreements to be entered into between the Secretary of   and States or Territories, pursuant to the provisions of the said act of  , with respect to withholding of compensation of certain civilian employees of   and   employee-retirement system purposes:

1. Such an agreement shall be entered into by the Secretary of   within one hundred and twenty days of the receipt of a request therefor by the Secretary from the Governor or any other proper official of any   or Territory: Provided, (a) that the law of such   or Territory provides for the payment of employee contributions to such   or   employee-retirement systems by withholding sums from the compensation of such   or Territorial employees and making returns of such sums to officials of such   or  ; (b) that civilian employees of   and  , other than those employed by  , are eligible for membership in a   or   employee-retirement system; and (c) that each such agreement shall be consistent with the provisions of the said act of  , and of rules and regulations issued thereunder, and shall be subject to any amendments of the said act, including amendments occurring after the effective date of any such agreement.

2. Each such agreement (a) shall provide that the Secretary of the   with respect to such employees of  , and the Secretary of   with respect to such employees of  , shall comply with the requirements of such   or Territorial law in the case of employees subject to the said act of  , who are eligible for membership in such retirement system for   or Territorial employees, (b) shall specify when the withholding of sums from the compensation of such   or Territorial employees shall commence, and

(c) shall provide for procedures for the withholding, the filing of the returns. and the payment of the sums withheld from compensation to the   or Territory which conform, so far as practicable, to the usual fiscal practices of   and  , respectively.

3. The Secretary of the   with respect to   employees, and the Secretary of   with respect to   employees, shall designate, or provide for the designation of, the officers or employees whose duty it shall be to withhold sums from compensation, file required returns, and direct the payment of such sums withheld, in accordance with the terms of the agreements entered into between the Secretary of   and  .

4. Nothing in this order, or in rules or regulations issued thereunder, or in any agreement entered into pursuant thereto, shall be construed as giving consent to the application of any provision of law of any   or Territory which has the effect of imposing more burdensome requirements upon   than it imposes upon the departments, agencies, or political subdivisions of the State or Territory concerned with respect to employees thereof who are members of the   or Territorial retirement system, or which has the effect of subjecting   or any of its officers or employees to any penalty or liability.

5. As used in this order, the term "employees" means civilian employees of   or   of a State or Territory who are employed pursuant to section 709 of title 32 of the United States Code, and paid from  , appropriated funds.

6. I hereby delegate to the Secretary of   authority to prescribe such rules and regulations not inconsistent herewith as may be necessary to further effectuate the provisions of the said act of  , or of this order.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
