Whereas that the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), also known as ISIS or the Islamic
State, is a terrorist organization committing daily acts of barbarity
currently encompassing large portions of Syria and Iraq, and is a serious
threat to the United States and the international community;
Whereas ISIL's violence is destructive of religious freedom, the equality of women, protections
against genocide, principles of national sovereignty, freedom of
expression, and other core human rights protected by international law;
Whereas ISIL's grisly execution of United States hostages, recruitment of United States citizens
and others
to serve as foreign fighters that threaten to return to the United States
and
other nations, and pledges to carry out additional acts of violence
directly against the United States make it a threat of growing
significance to the United States; and
Whereas United Nations Security Council Resolutions 2169 (2014) and 2170 (2014) note that ISIL’s
advancement is a
major threat to Iraq’s future, condemn attacks by ISIL, reiterate
international community support for Iraq’s security and territorial
integrity, and emphasize the need for the international community to work
together to help stabilize Iraq and combat ISIL: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Short title
This joint resolution may be cited as the
Authorization for Use of Military Force against the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant
.
2.
Authorization for use of United States Armed Forces against the Islamic State in Iraq and the
Levant
(a)
In general
In order to protect the United States and other countries from terrorist attacks by the Islamic
State
in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), and in order to protect individuals from
acts of violence in clear contravention of international law and basic
human rights, the President is authorized, as part of a multinational
coalition, subject to the limitations in
subsection
(b)—
(1)
to use all necessary and appropriate force to participate in a campaign of airstrikes in Iraq, and
if the President deems necessary, in Syria, to degrade and defeat ISIL;
and
(2)
to provide military equipment and training to forces fighting ISIL in Iraq or Syria, including the
Iraqi security forces, Kurdish fighters, and other
legitimate, appropriately vetted, non-terrorist opposition groups in
Syria.
(b)
No authorization for use of ground forces or force against associated forces
The authorization in this section does not include—
(1)
authorization for the use of United States ground combat forces, except for the purposes set forth
in subsection (a)(2) or as necessary for the protection or rescue of
members of the United States Armed Forces or United States citizens from
imminent danger posed by ISIL, or for limited operations against high
value targets; or
(2)
authorization for the use of force against forces associated with ISIL, unless such forces are
identified in a report submitted under section 4 as
individuals or organizations that are immediately and directly fighting
alongside ISIL in Iraq
and Syria.
(c)
Expiration
The authorization in this section shall expire on the date that is one year after the date of
the enactment of this joint resolution.
(d)
War Powers Resolution requirements
(1)
Specific statutory authorization
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, the Congress declares that this
section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within
the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution.
(2)
Applicability of other requirements
Nothing in this resolution supercedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution.
3.
Repeal of prior Authorization for Use of United States Armed Forces Against Iraq
The Authorization for the Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002 (Public Law
107–243;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note) is hereby repealed.
4.
Designation of organizations and individuals immediately and directly fighting alongside ISIL
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this resolution, and every 90 days
thereafter, the President shall submit to Congress a list of those
organizations or individuals immediately and directly fighting alongside
ISIL for purposes
of actions taken pursuant to this joint resolution. The list shall be
maintained in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.
5.
Reports
The President shall report to Congress every 90 days after enactment of this resolution regarding
the
progress of the effort against ISIL.
6.
Rules of construction
Nothing in this resolution shall be construed as—
(1)
authorizing support for force in support of, or in cooperation with, the national government of
Syria that was
in power as of the date of the enactment of this resolution,
or its security services; or
(2)
limiting the constitutional or statutory powers of the President or Congress, or any additional
powers held by the United States pursuant to international law or treaty.
