Section 1. Policy. It is the policy of the executive branch of   to help answer the questions that the people of   have asked for   regarding the options for the islands’ future status and the process for realizing an option. Further, it is our policy to consider and develop positions on proposals, without preference among the options, for the  ’s future status; to discuss such proposals with representatives of the people of   and the  ; to work with leaders of the   and the   to clarify the options to enable   to determine their preference among options for the islands’ future status that are not incompatible with the Constitution and basic laws and policies of  ; and to implement such an option if chosen by a majority, including helping   obtain a governing arrangement under which they would vote for national government officials, if they choose such a status.

 . 2. The President’s Task Force on   Status. There is established a task force to be known as "The President’s Task Force on Puerto Rico’s Status" (Task Force). It shall be composed of designees of each member of the President  and   of the President’s Interagency Group on   (Interagency Group). The Task Force shall be co-chaired by the Attorney General’s designee and a Co-Chair of  .

 . 3. Functions. The Task Force shall seek to implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order. It shall ensure official attention to and facilitate action on matters related to proposals for   status and the process by which an option can be realized. It shall provide advice and recommendations on such matters to the President and the  . It shall also provide advice and recommendations to assist   of the President in fulfilling its responsibilities under Public Law 106-346 to transfer funding to   for public education on and a public choice among options for   future status that are not incompatible with the Constitution and the basic laws and policies of  .

 . 4. Report. The Task Force shall report on its actions to the President not later than  , and thereafter as needed but not less than

annually on progress made in the determination of   ultimate status.
