Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's  . The   shall comprise 7 members from outside   to be appointed by the President. Members shall each have substantial experience and expertise in the areas to be considered by  . Members shall be representative of the diverse perspectives in the areas to be considered by  .

(b) The President shall designate a   from among the members of  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall advise the President on matters involving race and racial reconciliation, including ways in which the President can:

(1) Promote a constructive national dialogue to confront and work through challenging issues that surround race;

(2) Increase the  's understanding of our recent history of race relations and the course our Nation is charting on issues of race relations and racial diversity;

(3) Bridge racial divides by encouraging leaders in communities throughout the   to develop and implement innovative approaches to calming racial tensions;

(4) Identify, develop, and implement solutions to problems in areas in which race has a substantial impact, such as education, economic opportunity, housing, health care, and the administration of justice.

(b)   also shall advise on such other matters as from time to time the President may refer to the  .

(c) In carrying out its functions, the   shall coordinate with the staff of the President's  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the financial and administrative support for  .

(b) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the   such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(c) The   may, from time to time, invite experts to submit information to   and may form subcommittees or working groups within   to review specific matters.

(d) Members of   shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , that are applicable to the   shall be performed by the Attorney General, or his or her designee, in accordance with guidelines that have been issued by  .

(b) The   shall terminate on  , unless extended by the President prior to such date.
