Section 1. (a) The Interagency Task Force on the Roles and Missions of the United States Coast Guard is established.

(b) The Task Force shall be composed of one representative from the: (1)  ; (2)  ; (3)  ; (4)  ; (5)  ; (6)  ; (7) Environmental Protection Agency; ( ; (9)  ; (10)  ; (11)  ; (12)  ; (13)  ; and (14)  .

The Secretary of   shall select from among the Task Force members a   and Vice Chair for  .

(c) The members of the Task Force shall be officials or employees of  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The Task Force shall report to the President through the Secretary of  , and shall provide advice and recommendations regarding the appropriate roles and missions for   through  . While   will comprehensively review all   roles and missions, it will give special attention to the deepwater missions, which are those that generally occur beyond 50 nautical miles from   shores.

(b) The   shall consult with the Secretary of  , Commandant of  , and, as appropriate, other heads of departments and agencies. The   may invite experts to submit information to   and hold field briefings or visits.

(c) The   may acquire services or form teams to carry out the functions of  . The Task Force and/or the Task Force staff may travel as necessary to carry out   functions.

 . 3. Methodology. (a)   will seek to identify and distinguish which   roles, missions, and functions might be added or enhanced; might be maintained at current levels of performance; or might be reduced, eliminated, or moved to other private organizations or Government agencies.   also will consider whether current   roles, missions, and functions might be better performed by private organizations (by contract or otherwise), public authorities, local or   governments, or other Federal agencies.   will provide explicit reasons for its recommendations.

(b)   will establish explicit criteria for screening roles, missions, and functions to determine how and by whom they would be best performed.

(c) For those roles, missions, and functions that the Task Force recommends be performed by  ,   will advise as to how they might be performed most effectively and efficiently.

(d)   will consider the impact on   roles, missions, and functions of future prospects in various areas, including technology, demographics, the law of the sea, marine pollution, and national security.

(e) The Task Force shall review each of   law enforcement and national security missions and functions according to the methodology described in this section. However, in conducting that review, the Task Force shall assume that   will remain a law enforcement agency and an armed force of  .

 . 4. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Task Force such information with respect to the roles and missions of   as it may require to carry out its functions.

(b) The Coast Guard shall support the Task Force administratively and financially.

(c) The Secretary of   shall appoint a Staff Director for  .

(d) Assigned staff shall possess a balanced and broad base of experience to include persons of experience in national security, military operations, foreign and domestic policy, international affairs, economic policy, environmental protection, and law enforcement. Staff members may include military members on active duty,   members of any component, and Federal civilian employees.

 . 5. General. (a) The Task Force shall exist for a period of   from its first meeting unless extended by the Secretary of   and, at the conclusion, submit a written report as discussed in section 2 of this order.

(b) The recommendations of   will be considered in determining the appropriate level of investment in    , a system of cutters and aircraft with an integrated command, control, communications, and sensor infrastructure. The Task Force may provide an interim report for use in preparation of the Federal budget for  .
