Section 1. In the first sentence of section 3.4(a) of Executive Order  , the words "within   from the date of this order" are deleted and the words "within six and   from the date of this order" are inserted in lieu thereof.

 . 2. The following new language is inserted at the end of section 3.4(a): "For records otherwise subject to this paragraph for which a review or assessment conducted by the agency and confirmed by   has determined that they: (1) contain information that was created by or is under the control of more than one agency, or (2) are within file series containing information that almost invariably pertains to intelligence sources or methods, all classified information in such records shall be automatically declassified, whether or not the records have been reviewed, within   from the date of this order, except as provided in paragraph (b), below. For records that contain information that becomes subject to automatic declassification after the dates otherwise established in this paragraph, all classified information in such records shall be automatically declassified, whether or not the records have been reviewed on   that is   from the origin of the information, except as provided in paragraph (b), below."

 . 3. Subsections (a) and (b) of section 5.2 are amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Director of  , under the direction of the   of   and in consultation with the Assistant to the President for   and the co-chairs of  , shall issue such directives as are necessary to implement this order. These directives shall be binding upon the agencies. Directives issued by the Director of   shall establish standards for:

(1) classification and marking principles;

(2) agency security education and training programs;

(3) agency self-inspection programs; and

(4) classification and declassification guides.

(b) The   of   shall delegate the implementation and monitorship functions of this program to the Director of  ."

 . 4. Subsection (a) and the introductory clause and item (4) of subsection (b) of section 5.3 are amended as follows:

(a) Subsection (a) shall read "(a) There is established within   an Information Security Oversight Office. The   of   shall appoint the Director of  , subject to the approval of the President."

(b) The introductory clause of subsection (b) shall read "Under the direction of the   of  , acting in consultation with the Assistant to the President for  , the Director of   shall:".

(c) Item (4) of subsection (b) shall read "(4) have the authority to conduct on-site reviews of each agency's program established under this order, and to require of each agency those reports, information, and other cooperation that may be necessary to fulfill its responsibilities. If granting access to specific categories of classified information would pose an exceptional national security risk, the affected agency head or the senior agency official shall submit a written justification recommending the denial of access to the President through the Assistant to the President for   within   of the request for access. Access shall be denied pending the response,".
