115 HRES 203 IH: Of inquiry requesting the President, and directing the Attorney General, to transmit, respectively, certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to certain communications by the President of the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2017-03-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 203
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 16, 2017
Mr. Quigley
(for himself,
Ms. Kaptur
,
Mr. Nadler
,
Mrs. Napolitano
,
Ms. Speier
,
Ms. Moore
, and
Mr. Swalwell of California
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry requesting the President, and directing the Attorney General, to transmit, respectively,
certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to certain
communications by the President of the United States.
That the President is requested, and the Attorney General of the United States is directed, to transmit, respectively (in a manner appropriate to classified information, if the President or the Attorney General determines appropriate), to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, record, memo, correspondence, or other communication in their possessions, or any portion of any such communication, that refers or relates to the following:
(1)
President Donald J. Trump’s statement, communicated via Twitter on March 4, 2017, at 3:35 a.m.:
Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my ‘wires tapped’ in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism.
.
(2)
President Trump’s statement, communicated via Twitter on March 4, 2017, at 3:49 a.m.:
Is it legal for a sitting President to be ‘wire tapping’ a race for president prior to an election? Turned down by court earlier. A NEW LOW!
.
(3)
President Trump’s statement, communicated via Twitter on March 4, 2017, at 3:52 a.m.:
I’d bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that President Obama was tapping my phones in October, just prior to Election!
.
(4)
President Trump’s statement, communicated via Twitter on March 4, 2017, at 4:02 a.m.:
How low has President Obama gone to tapp [sic] my phones during the very sacred election process. This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy!
.
