115 HRES 928 IH: Of inquiry requesting the President and directing the Attorney General to transmit, respectively, certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the President’s use of the pardon power under article II, section 2 of the Constitution.
U.S. House of Representatives
2018-06-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 928
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 8, 2018
Mr. Ted Lieu of California
(for himself and
Mr. Pascrell
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry requesting the President and directing the Attorney General to transmit, respectively,
certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the
President’s use of the pardon power under article II, section 2 of the
Constitution.
That the President is requested, and Attorney General of the United States is directed, to transmit, respectively, to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, record, audio recording, memorandum, correspondence, or other communication in their possession, or any portion of any such communication, that refers or relates to the following:
(1)
Any pardon issued by the President on or after January 20, 2017.
(2)
Any pardon under consideration by the President, including pardons under consideration for any of the following individuals:
(A)
Michael Cohen, the President’s personal attorney.
(B)
Paul Manafort, former chairman of the Trump Presidential campaign.
(C)
Richard Gates, former deputy chairman of the Trump Presidential campaign.
(D)
Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn.
(E)
George Papadopoulos, advisor to the Trump Presidential campaign.
(F)
Alex van der Zwaan, attorney and former associate of Paul Manafort.
(3)
Any consideration of the President’s power to pardon himself, including his assertion that he has the
absolute right
to pardon himself.
(4)
President Trump’s decision to issue pardons without first consulting the Office of the Pardon Attorney of the Department of Justice.
