Executive Order  —Rules of Official Precedence
 
 

The following rules of precedence will henceforth be observed as between (1) Ambassadors, Ministers, and officers of  ; (2) officers of  ; officers of   and  ; and (4) Foreign Commerce officers of  . Previous executive orders inconsistent herewith are rescinded.

1. In the country to which he is accredited, the chief of the diplomatic mission takes precedence over all officers of the  ,  , or  .

2. In diplomatic missions the following ranking will be observed:

Counselors take place and precedence next in succession after the Chief of Mission.

Military and   attaches take place and precedence next in succession after the  , or at a post where   has deemed it unnecessary to assign a Counselor, after the senior first secretary. Military and   attaches take precedence as between themselves according to their respective grades and seniority therein.

Commercial attaches rank with but after Military and   attaches.

Assistant Military and   attaches take place and precedence next after second secretaries. Assistant Military and   attaches take precedence as between themselves according to their respective grades and seniority therein.

Assistant Commercial attaches rank with but after Assistant Military and   attaches.

In the absence of the titular head of the mission, the senior diplomatic officer will act as   ad interim, unless otherwise directed by the Secretary of  , and as such will take precedence over all members of the staff of the mission.

At ceremonies and receptions where the members of the mission take individual position, in the lists furnished foreign governments for inclusion in their diplomatic lists, and in  , place and precedence will follow the ranking indicated in the paragraphs above.

At ceremonies and receptions where diplomatic missions are present as a body, the Military,   and Commercial attaches will form distinct groups and follow in that order the diplomatic personnel of the mission.

3. In international conferences at which the   delegates possess plenipotentiary powers, the senior   or   attached to the delegation, takes place and precedence immediately after the delegates, unless otherwise instructed by the Secretary of  .

4. As between officers of  :—

(a) The senior   Officer functioning in a consular district in which there is no diplomatic mission, shall rank with but after the senior   Officer functioning in that district.

(b) Foreign Commerce Officers in a consular district, other than the senior officer, shall rank with respect to   in the Consular District other than the senior officer as follows:

(1) Foreign Commerce Officers of Class I, with but after Foreign Service Officers of Classes I and II;

(2) Foreign Commerce Officers of Class II, with but after Foreign Service Officers of Classes III and  ;

(3) Foreign Commerce Officers of  , with but after Foreign Service Officers of   and VII;

(4) Foreign Commerce Officers of  , with but after Foreign Service Officers of Classes VIII and  , and unclassified Officers of the first grade;

(5) Foreign Commerce Officers of Qass V, with but after unclassified   Officers of the second and third grades.

(c) In the absence of   in charge of a consular district,   Officer acting shall enjoy the precedence regularly accorded the former, and in the absence of the ranking Foreign Commerce Officer, the Officer acting shall enjoy the precedence of the ranking Foreign Commerce Officer.

5. In the districts to which they are assigned,   officers in charge of   General take place and precedence immediately after   in the   or  , and hold rank intermediate between   and Captains in the  .

In the Districts to which they are assigned   officers in charge of   take place and precedence immediately after   in the   or   and Captains in the  .

CALVIN COOLIDGE

 ,

 .
