2.
(a) No amendment to H.R. 4553 shall be in order except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, amendments en bloc described in section 3 of this resolution, and pro forma amendments described in section 4 of this resolution.
(b)
Each amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment except as provided by section 4 of this resolution, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole.
(c)
All points of order against amendments printed in the report of the Committee on Rules or against amendments en bloc described in section 3 of this resolution are waived.
3.
It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on Appropriations or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of amendments printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees, shall not be subject to amendment except as provided by section 4 of this resolution, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole.
4.
During consideration of H.R. 4553 for amendment, the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees may offer up to 10 pro forma amendments each at any point for the purpose of debate.
5.
At the conclusion of consideration of H.R. 4553 for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit.
6.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House any joint resolution specified in section 7 of this resolution. All points of order against consideration of each such joint resolution are waived. Each such joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in each such joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on each such joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
7.
The joint resolutions referred to in section 6 of this resolution are as follows:
(a)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 104) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ‘‘Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment’’.
(b)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 105) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ‘‘North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan’’.
(c)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 106) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ‘‘Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan’’.
8.
House Resolution 668 is hereby adopted.
9.
House Resolution 605 is hereby adopted.
10.
House Resolution 598 is laid on the table.
Kevin F. McCumber,
Clerk.
