2.
The bills referred to in the first section of this resolution are as follows:
(a)
The bill (H.R. 4922) to limit youth offender status in the District of Columbia to individuals 18 years of age or younger, to direct the Attorney General of the District of Columbia to establish and operate a publicly accessible website containing updated statistics on juvenile crime in the District of Columbia, to amend the District of Columbia Home Rule Act to prohibit the Council of the District of Columbia from enacting changes to existing criminal liability sentences, and for other purposes.
(b)
The bill (H.R. 5143) to establish standards for law enforcement officers in the District of Columbia to engage in vehicular pursuits of suspects, and for other purposes.
(c)
The bill (H.R. 5140) to lower the age at which a minor may be tried as an adult for certain criminal offenses in the District of Columbia to 14 years of age.
(d)
The bill (H.R. 5125) to amend the District of Columbia Home Rule Act to terminate the District of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission, and for other purposes.
3.
The Rules Committee Prints referred to in the first section of this resolution are as follows:
(a)
With respect to H.R. 4922, Rules Committee Print 119–10.
(b)
With respect to H.R. 5143, Rules Committee Print 119–11.
(c)
With respect to H.R. 5140, Rules Committee Print 119–12.
(d)
With respect to H.R. 5125, Rules Committee Print 119–13.
4.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1047) to require the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to reform the interconnection queue process for the prioritization and approval of certain projects, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Energy and Commerce now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 119–9 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
5.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3015) to reestablish the National Coal Council in the Department of Energy to provide advice and recommendations to the Secretary of Energy on matters related to coal and the coal industry, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Energy and Commerce now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
6.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3062) to establish a more uniform, transparent, and modern process to authorize the construction, connection, operation, and maintenance of international border-crossing facilities for the import and export of oil and natural gas and the transmission of electricity. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Energy and Commerce now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
7.
In the engrossment of the bill (H.R. 3633) to provide for a system of regulation of the offer and sale of digital commodities by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and for other purposes, the Clerk shall—
(a)
add the text of the bill (H.R. 1919) to amend the Federal Reserve Act to prohibit the Federal reserve banks from offering certain products or services directly to an individual, to prohibit the use of central bank digital currency for monetary policy, and for other purposes, as passed by the House, as new matter at the end of H.R. 3633;
(b)
conform the title of H.R. 3633 to reflect the addition of H.R. 1919, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
(c)
assign appropriate designations to provisions within the engrossment;
(d)
conform cross-references and provisions for short titles within the engrossment; and
(e)
be authorized to make technical corrections, to include corrections in spelling, punctuation, page and line numbering, section numbering, and insertion of appropriate headings.
8.
Section 5 of House Resolution 354, agreed to April 29, 2025, is amended by striking “September 30, 2025” and inserting “March 31, 2026”.
9.
Section 2 of House Resolution 313, agreed to April 9, 2025, is amended by striking “September 30, 2025” and inserting “March 31, 2026”.
10.
Section 4 of House Resolution 211, agreed to March 11, 2025, is amended by striking “for the remainder of the first session of the 119th Congress” and inserting “during the period from March 11, 2025, through March 31, 2026”.
11.
The provisions of section 202 of the National Emergencies Act (
50 U.S.C. 1622
) shall not apply during the period from September 16, 2025, through March 31, 2026, to a joint resolution terminating the national emergency declared by the President on July 30, 2025.
Kevin F. McCumber,
Clerk.
