1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Advancing Hydrogen Power Research and Development Act
.
2.
Identifying and removing market and regulatory barriers to hydrogen energy
(a)
Report on hydrogen energy barriers
(1)
In general
Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Department of Energy and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (in this section referred to as the
Commission
) shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report—
(A)
describing any barriers to the development, deployment, and use of hydrogen as a fuel source for residential, commercial, industrial, and electric power uses, including barriers to the development and deployment of hydrogen transportation and storage infrastructure, caused by—
(i)
the rules of a Transmission Organization (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 796
));
(ii)
any order, regulation, or policy—
(I)
of the Commission; and
(II)
issued pursuant to the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.
) or the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717 et seq.
); and
(iii)
any other Federal or State law, regulation, or policy;
(B)
containing recommendations of the Commission for reducing the barriers described in subparagraph (A); and
(C)
identifying any regulatory, market, procurement, or cost recovery mechanisms that would encourage the development, deployment, and use of hydrogen as a fuel source for residential, commercial, industrial, and electric power uses.
(2)
Public input and technical conference
In preparing the report under paragraph (1), the Commission shall solicit public input, including by convening a technical conference and providing an opportunity for public submission of written comments on a draft report.
(b)
Hydrogen blending pilot program
(1)
In general
The Commission shall establish and carry out a pilot program for hydrogen blending projects in accordance with the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717 et seq.
).
(2)
Requirements
In carrying out the pilot program under paragraph (1), the Commission shall—
(A)
not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this section, hold an initial workshop to solicit public comments and recommendations on how to carry out the pilot program;
(B)
establish an application process to determine which hydrogen blending projects may participate in the pilot program;
(C)
not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, issue any licenses, permits, or other authorizations necessary for participation in the pilot program; and
(D)
not later than 2 years after the date on which the final hydrogen blending project is implemented, hold a final workshop to solicit public comment on the effectiveness of the pilot program.
