1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Defense Production Oversight Act of 2022
.
2.
Congressional disapproval of invocation of Defense Production Act of 1950 authorities
Title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4551 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
724.
Congressional disapproval of invocation of title I and III authorities
(a)
In general
An invocation by the President of authorities under title I or III shall have no force or effect on or after the date of the enactment of a joint resolution of disapproval.
(b)
Joint resolution of disapproval defined
In this section, the term
joint resolution of disapproval
means a joint resolution the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows:
That Congress disapproves of the invocation by the President of authorities under the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.
) relating to ___.
, with the blank space being filled with a brief description of the matter with respect to which the President invoked such authorities.
(c)
Referral
A joint resolution of disapproval shall be referred to the committees in each House of Congress with jurisdiction.
(d)
Consideration in Senate
(1)
Committee discharge
In the Senate, if the committee to which is referred a joint resolution of disapproval has not reported such joint resolution (or an identical joint resolution) at the end of 20 calendar days after the date on which the President invokes the authorities that are the subject of the joint resolution of disapproval, such committee may be discharged from further consideration of such joint resolution upon a petition supported in writing by 30 Members of the Senate, and such joint resolution shall be placed on the calendar.
(2)
Floor consideration
(A)
Proceeding to consideration
In the Senate, when the committee to which a joint resolution of disapproval is referred has reported, or when a committee is discharged (under paragraph (1)) from further consideration of, a joint resolution of disapproval, it is at any time thereafter in order (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) for a motion to proceed to the consideration of the joint resolution, and all points of order against the joint resolution (and against consideration of the joint resolution) are waived. The motion is not subject to amendment, or to a motion to postpone, or to a motion to proceed to the consideration of other business. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in order. If a motion to proceed to the consideration of the joint resolution is agreed to, the joint resolution shall remain the unfinished business of the Senate until disposed of.
(B)
Debate
In the Senate, debate on a joint resolution of disapproval, and on all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 10 hours, which shall be divided equally between those favoring and those opposing the joint resolution. A motion further to limit debate is in order and not debatable. An amendment to, or a motion to postpone, or a motion to proceed to the consideration of other business, or a motion to recommit the joint resolution is not in order.
(C)
Vote on final passage
In the Senate, immediately following the conclusion of the debate on a joint resolution of disapproval, and a single quorum call at the conclusion of the debate if requested in accordance with the rules of the Senate, the vote on final passage of the joint resolution shall occur.
(D)
Appeals from decisions of the Chair
Appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules of the Senate to the procedure relating to a joint resolution of disapproval shall be decided without debate.
(3)
Time for consideration
In the Senate, the procedures specified in this subsection shall not apply to the consideration of a joint resolution of disapproval after the expiration of the period of 60 session days beginning on the date on which the President invokes the authorities that are the subject of the joint resolution.
(e)
Consideration of resolution of other House
If, before the passage by one House of a joint resolution of disapproval of that House, that House receives from the other House a joint resolution of disapproval, then the following procedures shall apply:
(1)
The joint resolution of the other House shall not be referred to a committee.
(2)
With respect to a joint resolution of the House receiving the joint resolution—
(A)
the procedure in that House shall be the same as if no joint resolution had been received from the other House; but
(B)
the vote on final passage shall be on the joint resolution of the other House.
(f)
Rules of Senate and House of Representatives
This section is enacted by Congress—
(1)
as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, and as such it is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that House in the case of a joint resolution of disapproval, and it supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
(2)
with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.
.
