1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Guaranteeing Enemy Nations Omit from Criminalizing, Impeding, or Detaining Exceptional Global Athletes Magnifying Exploitation during Sporting events Act
or the
GENOCIDE GAMES Act
.
2.
Global Magnitsky sanctions with respect to certain International Olympic Committee (IOC) officials who are complicit in the perpetuation of human rights abuses in the People’s Republic of China
(a)
Determination required
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, each time the President receives credible evidence that a gross violation of internationally recognized human rights has occurred against a 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games participant, the President shall determine by a preponderance of evidence whether a foreign person described in subsection (b) materially supported such gross violation of internationally recognized human rights.
(b)
Foreign persons described
A foreign person described in this subsection is a foreign person who is—
(1)
President of the International Olympic Committee; or
(2)
any other individual associated with the International Olympic Committee who the President determines has materially assisted a gross violation of internationally recognized human rights.
(c)
Mandatory sanctions
The President shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (f) with respect to each foreign person described in subsection (b) that the President determines materially supported a gross violation of internationally recognized human rights pursuant to subsection (a).
(d)
Rule of construction
For the purposes of this Act, material support of a gross violation of internationally recognized human rights shall be construed to include false, reckless, or negligent assurances to 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games participants regarding human rights assurances provided to the International Olympic Committee by the government of the People’s Republic of China, the Chinese Communist Party, or any agent acting on their behalf or under their control.
(e)
Reports to congress
Each time the President makes a determination pursuant to subsection (a), the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of the foreign person concerned, the President’s determination, and the basis for such determination.
(f)
Sanctions described
(1)
In general
The sanctions described in this subsection are the sanctions described in section 1263(b) of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act (subtitle F of title XII of
Public Law 114–328
;
22 U.S.C. 2656
note).
(2)
Exception for intelligence activities
The requirement to impose sanctions under this section shall not apply with respect to activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.
), or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
(g)
Waiver
The President may waive the imposition of the sanctions under this section with respect to a foreign person if the President determines and reports to the appropriate congressional committees that a waiver is in the national security interests of the United States.
(h)
Implementation
(1)
In general
The President may exercise all authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this section.
(2)
Exception relating to the importation of goods
The authorities and requirements to impose sanctions authorized under this Act shall not include the authority or requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
(3)
Good defined
In this subsection, the term
good
means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply, or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment and excluding technical data.
(i)
Penalties
A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1705
) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
(j)
Report on implementation
Not later than 15 days after imposing sanctions under subsection (a), the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report regarding measures taken to implement this section.
(k)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
(2)
2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games participant defined
In this Act, a
2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games participant
is any United States or foreign person involved in the 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, including athletes, spectators, government and private officials, members of the press, and persons involved in economic activity related to the Games.
(3)
Foreign person
The term
foreign person
means an individual or entity that is not a United States person.
(4)
United states person
The term
United States person
means—
(A)
a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States; or
(B)
an entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.
3.
Sunset
This Act shall terminate on March 13, 2023.
