1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Military Threat Awareness Act of 2022
.
2.
Public report on military capabilities of China, Iran, North Korea, and Russia
(a)
Public report on military capabilities of covered countries
Chapter 23
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 486
the following new section:
487.
Public report on military capabilities of covered countries
(a)
Annual report
Not later than January 30 of each year through 2027, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, shall make publicly available on the internet website of the Department of Defense a report on the military capabilities of each covered country.
(b)
Matters included
Each report under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to each covered country—
(1)
an assessment of the grand strategy, security strategy, and military strategy, including the goals and trends of such strategies;
(2)
an estimate of the funds spent annually on developing conventional forces, unconventional forces, and nuclear and missile forces;
(3)
an assessment of the size and capabilities of the conventional forces;
(4)
an assessment of the size and capability of the unconventional forces and related activities;
(5)
with respect to the forces described in subsection (d)(3)(B), an assessment of the types and amount of support, including—
(A)
lethal and non-lethal supplies; and
(B)
training provided; and
(6)
an assessment of the capabilities of the nuclear and missile forces and related activities, including—
(A)
the nuclear weapon capabilities;
(B)
the ballistic missile forces; and
(C)
the development of the nuclear and missile forces since the preceding year.
(c)
Form
Each report under subsection (a) shall be made available in unclassified form, consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods.
(d)
Nonduplication of efforts
The Secretary of Defense may use or add to any existing reports completed by the Secretary of Defense or Director of National Intelligence to respond to the reporting requirement under subsection (a).
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
conventional forces
means, with respect to a covered country, military forces designed to conduct operations in sea, air, space, cyberspace, the electromagnetic spectrum, or land, other than unconventional forces, ballistic forces, and cruise missile forces.
(2)
The term
covered country
means each of the following:
(A)
China.
(B)
Iran.
(C)
North Korea.
(D)
Russia.
(3)
The term
unconventional forces
, with respect to a covered country—
(A)
means forces that carry out missions typically associated with special operations forces; and
(B)
includes any organization that—
(i)
has been designated by the Secretary of State as a foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
); or
(ii)
has been assessed by the Secretary of Defense as being willing to act under the control or at the direction of such covered country.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for
chapter 23
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item related to section 486 the following item:
487. Public report on military capabilities of covered countries.
.
