1.
Minimum number of amphibious battle force ships in the combat forces of the Navy
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The amphibious warfare ship force structure of the Navy must be maintained at 31, composed of 10 amphibious assault ships general-purpose and multi-purpose, and 21 amphibious transport dock types, in order to meet global commitments.
(2)
Amphibious warfare ships provide fleet commanders and joint force commanders with credible deterrence, support active campaigning strategies, and offer an option for the rapid aggregation of forward, tailored, and ready forces to respond to crisis and conflict.
(3)
Due to their utility across the spectrum of competition and conflict, including substantial deterrent value during periods of uncertainty, amphibious warfare ships are one of the assets most requested by combatant commanders.
(4)
A single three-ship amphibious ready group formation with an embarked Marine Expeditionary Unit provides over 2,000 sailors and marines, 5th generation fighters, helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, anti-air capabilities, lethal fires, and a suite of sensor and communication systems that provide fleet and joint force commanders with tailored options that support naval expeditionary and joint force campaigns.
(5)
Amphibious-based forces employ these capabilities from sovereign territory aboard ship, without the need for overseas basing, as such these forces provide a unique and consequential offering to the joint force.
(6)
Reductions in amphibious warfare ship procurement profile and decommissioning plans that result in less than the proscribed composition of 31 amphibious ships will negatively impact the ability of the Navy to execute distributed maritime operations; combatant commanders’ access to a flexible, nimble, and capable force; and the Nation's ability to force project.
(7)
Strategic global competition will continue to require the need for forward postured, combat credible, strategically maneuverable forces, capable of operating across a range of missions and threat environments—amphibious warfare ships are critical to providing this capability.
(b)
Minimum requirement
Section 8062 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as subsections (d) through (g), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
(c)
The naval combat forces of the Navy shall include not less than 31 operational amphibious battle force ships (as defined in section 8671(d) of this title). For purposes of this subsection, an operational amphibious battle force ship includes such a ship that is temporarily unavailable for worldwide deployment due to routine or scheduled maintenance or repair.
.
