1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pacific Islands Embassies Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The Pacific Islands are vital to United States national security and national interests in the Indo-Pacific region and globally.
(2)
The Pacific Islands region spans 15 percent of the world’s surface area and controls access to open waters in the Central Pacific, sea lanes to the Western Hemisphere, supply lines to United States forward-deployed forces in East Asia, and economically important fisheries.
(3)
The Pacific Islands region is home to the State of Hawaii, 11 United States territories, United States Naval Base Guam, and United States Andersen Air Force Base.
(4)
Pacific Island countries cooperate with the United States and United States partners on maritime security and efforts to stop illegal, unreported, and destructive fishing.
(5)
The Pacific Islands are rich in biodiversity and on the frontlines of sea level rise, worsening tropical storms, and coral reef loss associated with climate change.
(6)
The People’s Republic of China (PRC) seeks to increase its influence in the Pacific Islands region, including through infrastructure development under the PRC’s Belt and Road Initiative and its new security agreement with the Solomon Islands.
(7)
The United States Embassy in Papua New Guinea manages the diplomatic affairs of the United States to the Republic of Vanuatu, and the United States Embassy in Fiji manages the diplomatic affairs of the United States to the Republic of Kiribati and the Kingdom of Tonga.
(8)
The United States requires a physical diplomatic presence in the Republic of Vanuatu, the Republic of Kiribati, and the Kingdom of Tonga, to ensure the physical and operation security of our efforts in those countries to deepen relations, protect United States national security, and pursue United States national interests.
(9)
Increasing the number of United States embassies dedicated solely to a Pacific Island country demonstrates the United States’ ongoing commitment to the region and to the Pacific Island countries.
3.
Establishment of embassies
(a)
Establishment of United States embassies in Vanuatu, Kiribati, and Tonga
As soon as possible, and not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall establish physical United States embassies in the Republic of Vanuatu, the Republic of Kiribati, and the Kingdom of Tonga and recommend to the President ambassadors to lead each of these 3 embassies.
(b)
Other strategies
In establishing embassies pursuant to subsection (a) and creating the physical infrastructure to ensure the physical and operational safety of embassy personnel, the Secretary of State may pursue strategies such as renting or purchasing an existing building or colocation of embassies with like-minded partners like Australia and New Zealand.
(c)
Waiver authority
The President may waive the requirements under subsection (a) for a period of one year if the President determines and reports to Congress in advance that such waiver is necessary to protect the national security interests of the United States.
4.
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated for the Department of State—
(1)
$40,200,000 for fiscal year 2023 for embassy construction and maintenance of the 3 embassies to be established pursuant to section 3; and
(2)
$3,000,000 for fiscal year 2024 to maintain the embassies.
5.
Report
(a)
Progress report
Not later than 180 days following the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes—
(1)
a description of the status of activities carried out to achieve the objectives described in this Act;
(2)
an estimate of when embassies will be fully established pursuant to section 3(a); and
(3)
an update on events in the Pacific Islands region relevant to the establishment of United States embassies, including activities by the People’s Republic of China.
(b)
Report on final disposition
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report confirming the establishment of the 3 embassies required under section 3(a).
(c)
Appropriate congressional committees
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
