1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Local Control Act
.
2.
Disapproval of settlement of certain aliens
(a)
Conditions on settlement of certain aliens
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Attorney General, shall notify the Governor of a State and the chief executive of a political subdivision prior to the date on which any alien without lawful status under the immigration laws is transported to, housed in, or resettled in such State or political subdivision.
(b)
Disapproval of settlement of certain aliens
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the following conditions on transportation, housing, and resettlement of aliens without lawful status under the immigration laws shall apply:
(1)
No Federal funds may be used to transport, house, or resettle any alien without lawful status under the immigration laws within a State without the approval of the Governor of the State.
(2)
Notwithstanding any approval granted under paragraph (1), no Federal funds may be used to transport, house, or resettle any alien without lawful status under the immigration laws in any political subdivision within a State if the political subdivision has in effect a law, a policy with the effect of law, or resolution prohibiting or disapproving of the transportation, housing, or resettling of aliens in that political subdivision.
(3)
Notwithstanding paragraph (1) or (2), nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit the use of Federal funds for the transportation or detention of an alien without a lawful immigration status for civil or criminal law enforcement purposes.
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to restrict or limit the transportation or detention of an alien without a lawful immigration status for civil or criminal law enforcement purposes.
(d)
Alien defined
In this Act, the term
alien
has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)
).
