1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Youth Coastal Fishing Program Act of 2022
.
2.
Youth Coastal Fishing Grant Program
(a)
In General
The Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
), shall establish a program to award grants and provide technical assistance to eligible entities for the purpose of establishing youth fishing projects.
(b)
Applications
An eligible entity seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Eligible entities
The Secretary shall, for purposes of determining whether an entity is eligible to receive a grant under this section, develop criteria to make that determination in consultation with relevant offices of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, such as the Office of Coastal Management, the National Sea Grant Office, the National Marine Fisheries Service, and the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries.
(d)
Use of Funds
Eligible entities receiving grants under this section shall use grant funds for purposes related to conducting a youth fishing project, including the—
(1)
purchase or rental of fishing equipment;
(2)
cost of transporting participants to and from a youth fishing project;
(3)
fees associated with boat rental, pier access, or other facilities;
(4)
fishing license purchases;
(5)
fishing guide costs; or
(6)
other expenses related to conducting a youth fishing project as determined by the Secretary.
(e)
Priority
In making grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to applications containing proposals for youth fishing projects focused on an underserved community.
(f)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on—
(1)
which eligible entities received grants;
(2)
the amount each eligible entity received;
(3)
how eligible entities used funds as described in subsection (d); and
(4)
the number of participants in youth fishing projects funded by grants under this section.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
a nonprofit organization;
(B)
an educational institution;
(C)
a State, local, Tribal, or Territorial government; or
(D)
a Native Hawaiian organization.
(2)
Underserved community
The term
underserved community
means populations sharing a particular characteristic, and geographic communities, that have been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of economic, social, and civic life, such as—
(A)
racial and ethnic minorities;
(B)
persons with access and functional needs; or
(C)
persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality.
(3)
Youth fishing project
The term
youth fishing project
means a project that provides youth with—
(A)
a recreational fishing experience conducted from a shore, pier, or boat located in the Great Lakes, coastal waters, ocean waters, or a tidal river;
(B)
education about marine science, conservation, and fishing regulations; and
(C)
information on where and how to continue fishing.
(h)
Funding
(1)
Authorization of Appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
(2)
Availability
Funds made available to carry out this section shall be available until expended.
(3)
Administrative costs
Not more than 3 percent of the amount made available for a fiscal year under paragraph (1) may be used by the Secretary for the administrative costs of carrying out this section.
