1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of Health and Human Services Cybersecurity Coordination Act
.
2.
Strengthening cybersecurity at Department of Health and Human Services
(a)
In general
Section 2811(b) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300hh–10(b)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Cybersecurity
With respect to cybersecurity:
(A)
Monitor, evaluate, and report on the progress and performance of the Government Coordinating Council’s Cybersecurity Working Group and HHS Cybersecurity Working Group
.
(B)
Ensure that authorizing Federal officials review and approve the charter describing how the HHS Cybersecurity Working Group will facilitate collaboration with the HHS Chief Information Security Officer Council, Continuous Monitoring and Risk Scoring Working Group, and Cloud Security Working Group.
(C)
(i)
Finalize written agreements that include a description of how the Government Coordinating Council’s Cybersecurity Working Group will collaborate with advisory bodies focused on cybersecurity.
(ii)
Identify the roles and responsibilities of the Government Coordinating Council’s Cybersecurity Working Group.
(iii)
Monitor and update the written agreements on a regular basis.
(iv)
Ensure that authorizing Federal officials leading the working group approve the finalized agreements.
(D)
Update the charter for the Joint Healthcare and Public Health Cybersecurity Working Group for the current fiscal year and ensure that authorizing officials leading the working group review and approve the updated charter.
.
(b)
Additional cybersecurity coordination
Subtitle A of title XXVIII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300hh et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
2804.
Cybersecurity coordination
The Secretary shall—
(1)
monitor, evaluate, and report on the progress and performance of the HHS Chief Information Security Officer Council, Continuous Monitoring and Risk Scoring Working Group, and Cloud Security Working Group
; and
(2)
regularly monitor and update written agreements describing how the HHS Chief Information Security Officer Council, Continuous Monitoring and Risk Scoring Working Group, and Cloud Security Working Group will facilitate collaboration, and ensure that authorizing Federal officials review and approve the updated agreements under section 2811(b)(8)(C)
.
.
