1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Deterring Enemy Forces and Enabling National Defenses Act of 2022
or the
DEFEND Act of 2022
.
2.
Middle East integrated air and missile defense
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall seek to cooperate with allies and partners in the Middle East to identify an architecture and develop an acquisition approach for the countries specified in subsection (b) to implement an integrated air and missile defense capability to protect the people, infrastructure, and territory of such countries from cruise and ballistic missiles, manned and unmanned aerial systems, and rocket attacks from Iran and groups linked to Iran.
(b)
Countries specified
The countries specified in this subsection are as follows:
(1)
Countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council.
(2)
Iraq.
(3)
Israel.
(4)
Jordan.
(5)
Egypt.
(6)
Such other regional allies or partners of the United States as the Secretary may identify.
(c)
Strategy
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a strategy on cooperation with allies and partners in the Middle East to identify an architecture and develop an acquisition approach for the countries specified in subsection (b) to implement an integrated air and missile defense capability to protect the people, infrastructure, and territory of such countries from cruise and ballistic missiles, manned and unmanned aerial systems, and rocket attacks from Iran and groups linked to Iran.
(2)
Contents
The strategy submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An assessment of the threat of ballistic and cruise missiles, manned and unnamed aerial systems, and rocket attacks from Iran and groups linked to Iran to the countries specified in subsection (b).
(B)
A description of current efforts to coordinate indicators and warnings from such attacks with the countries specified in subsection (b).
(C)
A description of current systems to defend against attacks in coordination with the countries specified in subsection (b).
(D)
An explanation of how an integrated air and missile defense architecture would improve collective security in the region covered by the countries specified in subsection (b).
(E)
A description of efforts to engage specified foreign partners in establishing such an architecture.
(F)
An identification of elements of the integrated air and missile defense architecture that—
(i)
can be acquired and operated by specified foreign partners; and
(ii)
can only be provided and operated by members of the Armed Forces.
(G)
An identification of any challenges in establishing an integrated air and missile defense architecture with specified foreign partners.
(H)
An assessment of progress, and key challenges, in the implementation of the strategy using such metrics identified under paragraph (4).
(I)
Recommendations for improvements in the implementation of the strategy based on the metrics identified under paragraph (4).
(J)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers relevant.
(3)
Protection of sensitive information
Any activity carried out under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately protects sensitive information and the national security interests of the United States.
(4)
Metrics
The Secretary shall identify metrics to assess progress in the implementation of the strategy required in paragraph (1).
(5)
Format
The strategy submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Feasibility study
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(A)
complete a study on the feasibility and advisability of establishing a fund for an integrated air and missile defense system to counter the threats from cruise and ballistic missiles, manned and unmanned aerial systems, and rocket attacks for the countries specified in subsection (b) from Iran and groups linked with Iran; and
(B)
submit to the congressional defense committees the findings of the Secretary with respect to the study completed under subparagraph (A).
(2)
Assessment of contributions
The study completed under paragraph (1)(A) shall include an assessment of funds that could be contributed by allies and of the United States and countries that are partners with the United States.
(e)
Congressional defense committees defined
In this section, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.
