1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Use Stocks, Stop Russia Act of 2022
.
2.
Prohibition on importation of Russian petroleum products
(a)
Prohibition
The President shall prohibit the importation of all petroleum products (as such term is defined in section 3 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (
42 U.S.C. 6202
)) originating from Russia into the customs territory of the United States (as such term is defined in General Note 2 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule).
(b)
Removal
The President may remove the prohibition under subsection (a) with respect to petroleum products described in such subsection if the President determines that all hostile Russian troops have been withdrawn from areas under the sovereignty of Ukraine.
3.
Keystone XL pipeline
(a)
Authorization
TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, L.P. may construct, connect, operate, and maintain the pipeline facilities at the international border of the United States and Canada at Phillips County, Montana, for the import of oil from Canada to the United States as described in the Presidential Permit of March 29, 2019 (84 Fed. Reg. 13101 (April 3, 2019)).
(b)
Presidential permits
No Presidential permit or any other Executive order shall be required for the construction, connection, operation, or maintenance of the pipeline facilities described in paragraph (1).
4.
Sense of Congress regarding domestic ethanol and other fuels
It is the sense of Congress that the United States—
(1)
can use domestically produced energy, including renewable energy, to meet the current demand for energy in the United States; and
(2)
should prioritize the use of available inventories and surpluses of fossil fuel and ethanol in the United States before using fossil fuel and ethanol that is imported from foreign countries.
5.
Prohibition on drawdown and sale of petroleum products from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the period that begins on the date of enactment of this Act and ends on the date the President determines that all hostile Russian troops have been withdrawn from areas under the sovereignty of Ukraine, the drawdown and sale of petroleum products from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is prohibited.
