1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Powering America through Domestic Energy Act
or the
PADE Act
.
2.
Prohibition on importation of crude oil and petroleum products from the Russian Federation
(a)
In general
Effective beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall prohibit the importation of crude oil and petroleum products from the Russian Federation.
(b)
Regulations
The President shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary and appropriate to carry out this section.
3.
Prohibition on declaration of a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may not declare a moratorium on the use of hydraulic fracturing unless such moratorium is authorized by an Act of Congress.
4.
Prohibition on withdrawal of Federal land from oil and gas leasing
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may not withdraw any Federal land from oil and gas leasing under any of the mineral leasing laws unless such withdrawal has been authorized by an Act of Congress.
5.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the United States should support, and not limit access to, all domestic sources of energy development in an effort to achieve full energy security, including by—
(1)
encouraging technological innovations to exploit the vast supply of natural gas;
(2)
increasing domestic oil production, infrastructure, and refining capacity;
(3)
exploring and investing in the current nuclear fleet and advanced reactor technologies;
(4)
rolling back Executive orders that limit the exploration and development of domestic natural resources on Federal lands;
(5)
taking advantage of domestic coal supply through processes such as carbon capture, utilization, and storage;
(6)
using expanded renewable and alternative energy sources;
(7)
supporting additional research and development through new and innovative methods, including public-private partnerships;
(8)
promoting increased conservation and energy efficiency; and
(9)
enhancing consumer awareness and education regarding domestic energy use, supply, and development.
