1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Think Tank and Nonprofit Foreign Influence Disclosure Act
.
2.
Annual disclosure of contributions from foreign governments and political parties by certain tax-exempt organizations
(a)
Reporting requirement
Section 6033(b)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
and
at the end of paragraph (15), by redesignating paragraph (16) as paragraph (17) and by inserting after paragraph (15) the following new paragraph:
(16)
with respect to each government of a foreign country (within the meaning of section 1(e) of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 (
22 U.S.C. 611(e)
)) and each foreign political party (within the meaning of section 1(f) of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 611(f)
) which made aggregate contributions and gifts to the organization during the year in excess of $50,000, the name of such government or political party and such aggregate amount, and
.
(b)
Public disclosure
Section 6104 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(e)
Public disclosure of certain information
The Secretary shall make publicly available in a searchable database the following information:
(1)
The information furnished under
section 6033(b)(16)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by this section.
(2)
The name of the organization furnishing the information described in paragraph (1).
(3)
The aggregate amount reported under such section as having been received as contributions or gifts in each year from foreign governments, political parties, and individuals.
(4)
The aggregate amount reported under such section as having been received as contributions or gifts in each year from—
(A)
China, the Chinese Communist Party, Chinese Communist Party officials, and State-owned Chinese entities,
(B)
Russia, Russian officials, and State-owned Russian entities, and
(C)
persons identified pursuant to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN) Human Readable Lists.
.
(c)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary of State, shall issue a report to Congress (including to the Committee on Financial Services, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, of the House of Representatives) on the foreign influence of tax-exempt organizations. Such report shall include a focus on—
(1)
the role of foreign influence in—
(A)
funding of tax-exempt organizations to influence the United States energy sector, including the funding of environmental groups in the United States with the aim of disrupting the United States energy industry and influencing public opinion of the oil and gas industry,
(B)
funding of tax-exempt organizations that directly or indirectly route to terrorist groups and where a charitable organization knowingly or intentionally provides logistical services, recruitment, or otherwise facilitated support to a terrorist group in a conflict zone, and
(2)
funding from—
(A)
China, the Chinese Communist Party, Chinese Communist Party officials, and State-owned Chinese entities,
(B)
Russia, Russian officials, and State-owned Russian entities, and
(C)
persons identified pursuant to Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN) Human Readable Lists.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to returns filed for taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
