1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Combatting International Drug Trafficking and Human Smuggling Partnership Act of 2022
.
2.
Enhancing the operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in foreign countries
(a)
Operations in foreign countries and support to foreign authorities
(1)
In general
The Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1304 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after section 629 the following new section:
629A.
Operations in foreign countries and support to foreign authorities
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, employees of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other customs officers designated in accordance with section 401(i) may provide the support described in subsection (b) to authorities of the government of a foreign country, including by conducting joint operations with appropriate law enforcement officials within the territory of that country, if an arrangement has been entered into between the Government of the United States and the government of that country under which the provision of such support by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and such other customs officers is permitted.
(b)
Support described
Support described in this subsection is air and marine support for—
(1)
the monitoring, locating, tracking, and deterrence of—
(A)
illegal drugs to the United States;
(B)
the illicit traffic of persons and goods into the United States;
(C)
terrorist threats to the United States; and
(D)
other threats to the security or economy of the United States;
(2)
emergency humanitarian efforts; and
(3)
law enforcement capacity-building efforts.
(c)
Payment of claims against U.S. Customs and Border Protection for actions in foreign countries
The Secretary of Homeland Security may use funds appropriated or otherwise available to U.S. Customs and Border Protection for operations and support to pay tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries in connection with U.S. Customs and Border Protection operations abroad
.
(2)
Conforming amendment
Section 411(f) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 211(f)
) is amended—
(A)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
(4)
Permissible activities
U.S. Customs and Border Protection may provide support to authorities of the government of a foreign country, including by conducting joint operations, with appropriate officials within the territory of that country in accordance with section 629A of the Tariff Act of 1930.
.
