1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Buttressing Our National Defense Act of 2022
or the
BOND Act of 2022
.
2.
Apprehension and detention of certain aliens
Section 236(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1266(a)(2)
) is amended by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
(A)
bond of at least $3,000 with security approved by, and containing conditions prescribed by, the Secretary of Homeland Security; or
.
3.
Mandatory detention of suspected terrorists and members of other criminal organizations
Section 236A(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1226A(a)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
(2)
Release
Except as provided in paragraphs (5) and (6), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall maintain custody of such an alien until the alien is removed from the United States. Except as provided in paragraph (6), such custody shall be maintained irrespective of any relief from removal for which the alien may be eligible, or any relief from removal granted the alien, until the Secretary of Homeland Security determines that the alien is no longer an alien who may be certified under paragraph (3).
;
(2)
by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following:
(5)
Commencement of proceedings
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall place an alien detained under paragraph (1) in removal proceedings, or shall charge the alien with a criminal offense, not later than 30 days after the commencement of such detention. If the requirement of the preceding sentence is not satisfied, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall release the alien.
;
(3)
by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following new paragraph:
(6)
Limitation on indefinite detention
An alien detained solely under paragraph (1) who has not been removed under section 1231(a)(1)(A) of this title, and whose removal is unlikely in the reasonably foreseeable future for reasons other than the alien’s home country’s refusal to issue appropriate travel documents for the alien or otherwise accept return of the alien, may be detained for additional periods of up to two years.
; and
(4)
in subsection (b)(2)(A)—
(A)
in clause (ii), by striking the semicolon and inserting
; or
;
(B)
in clause (iii), by striking
; or
and inserting a period; and
(C)
by striking clause (iv).
