1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Public Servant Anti-Intimidation Act of 2022
.
2.
Prohibition on disclosing personal information of public servants on the Internet
(a)
In general
Chapter 93
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
1925.
Publication of personal information of public servants
(a)
Offense
Except as provided in subsection (b), whoever, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, knowingly publishes on the Internet or otherwise makes publicly available, the personal information of a public servant or the immediate family member of a public servant, shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
(b)
Exception
Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to personal information—
(1)
published on the Internet or otherwise made publicly available before an individual became a public servant; or
(2)
published on the Internet or otherwise made publicly available with the consent of the public servant or the immediate family member of a public servant.
(c)
Civil action
A public servant or immediate family member of a public servant who is a victim of an offense under subsection (a) may bring a civil action in an appropriate United States district court for equitable relief, damages in an amount that is presumed to be not less than $10,000, and attorney’s fees.
(d)
Rule of construction
Section 230 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 230
) does not apply to a provider of any type of interactive computer service with respect to liability under this section.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
public servant
means—
(A)
an officer or employee of the Executive, Legislative, or Judicial branch of the Federal Government;
(B)
the President; and
(C)
a Member of Congress (as such term is defined in section 2106 of title 5).
(2)
The term
personal information
means a person’s home address, home phone number, personal cell phone number, Social Security Number, or other personal identification number.
(3)
The term
interactive computer service
has the meaning given the term in section 230(f) of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 230(f)
).
(4)
The term
immediate family member
means a spouse, child, parent, or sibling.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 93
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
1925. Publication of personal information of public servants.
.
