1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Sibling Relationships in Foster Care Act of 2022
.
2.
Competitive grant pilot program to encourage the development of specialized foster care programs designed specifically for large sibling groups, sibling groups with a wide age range, and sibling groups with complex needs
Section 435 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 629e
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(f)
Competitive grant pilot program To encourage the development of specialized foster care programs designed specifically for large sibling groups, sibling groups with a wide age range, and sibling groups with complex needs
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a competitive grant pilot program under which, during the 5-year period that begins with the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall make not more than 5 grants to eligible entities who have applied therefor to encourage the development of specialized foster care programs designed specifically for groups of 3 or more siblings, sibling groups with a wide age range, and sibling groups with, or that include a youth with, complex needs. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a youth has complex needs if the youth exhibits challenging or risky behaviors that could cause themself or others serious harm, has mental health needs of such severity that the participation of the youth in daily life may be impaired either with or without services being rendered to help, has a disability (as defined under the Americans with Disabilities Act), or has an illness that requires continuous monitoring or is life-threatening, and complex needs include issues that may arise from siblings in foster care with a different parent, which could impact the ability of the siblings to be placed together, or from a youth with a history of trauma.
(2)
Eligible entity
In this subsection, the term
eligible entity
means a State child welfare agency, a State, tribal, or local agency, a faith- or community-based organization, or a nonprofit organization that has expertise and demonstrated experience, as well as State supervision, in administering a foster care program.
(3)
Applications
An eligible entity that desires to receive a grant under this subsection shall submit to the Secretary an application that includes—
(A)
a description of how funds received under the grant will be used to place together sibling groups described in paragraph (1);
(B)
a description of the specialized foster care program involved, and how the program is designed for the placement of sibling groups described in paragraph (1);
(C)
data describing the challenges of placing, and number of, sibling groups described in paragraph (1) that are awaiting placements; and
(D)
such other information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
(4)
Use of funds
A recipient of a grant under this subsection may use the grant funds only to develop specialized foster care programs which are—
(A)
designed to identify available placements for, and place together, sibling groups described in paragraph (1); and
(B)
evidence-based, and proven to substantially increase joint sibling placements.
(5)
Reporting requirement
As a condition of receiving a grant under this subsection, the grant recipient shall submit to the Secretary a written report on the number of children in the specialized foster care program involved, the size of the sibling groups served by the program, the methods used to place children with their siblings under the program, and the outcomes of the placements.
(6)
Regulations
The Secretary may prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.
(7)
Appropriation
In addition to any amounts otherwise made available to carry out this subpart, out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 to carry out the pilot program under this subsection, which shall remain available through fiscal year 2026.
.
