1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Corona Municipal Airport Lease Extension Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
In 1960, Corona established the Corona Municipal Airport to provide recreational opportunities for aviators throughout southern California.
(2)
The City of Corona initially entered into a lease agreement with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on December 24, 1959.
(3)
The City’s lease with the Corps of Engineers enabled the construction of the airport into its current configuration.
(4)
For over 60 years, the Corona Municipal Airport has supported local businesses, tourism, and recreation for local residents and the region.
(5)
The Corona Municipal Airport maintains the capability to assist in public safety efforts to protect life and property where aviation assets may be necessary.
(6)
The Corona Municipal Airport supports approximately one dozen local, small businesses.
(7)
The Corona Municipal Airport continues to drive business development and local tourism for the City of Corona and connect people throughout southern California to those opportunities.
(8)
The City of Corona’s lease with the Corps of Engineers is set to expire on January 30, 2037, without an opportunity to grandfather the facility under existing policies.
(9)
The closure of the Corona Municipal Airport would deprive aviators of significant opportunities to enjoy this recreation pastime as fewer small, recreational airports in the region remain open and accessible.
(10)
Extending the City’s lease with the Corps of Engineers would allow this culturally and economically significant facility to continue serving aviators in the region.
3.
Corona Municipal Airport lease
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, or any policy of the Corps of Engineers, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, shall treat the covered lease as a valid lease of land at a water resource development project under section 4 of the Act entitled,
An Act authorizing the construction of certain public works on rivers and harbors for flood control, and for other purposes
, approved December 22, 1944 (
16 U.S.C. 460d
), for the purpose of renewing the covered lease.
(b)
Definition of covered lease
In this Act, the term
covered lease
means the lease of land and water areas within the Prado Flood Control Basin Project Area between the Department of the Army and the City of Corona, California, for operations of the Corona Municipal Airport (Recreation Lease No. DACW09–1–67–60).
