1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Commercial Space Transportation Safety Act of 2022
.
2.
General authority of the National Transportation Safety Board
(a)
In general
Section 1131(a)(1) of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (E) by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (G); and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following:
(F)
a commercial space transportation accident in which there is—
(i)
a fatality or significant injury of any individual, regardless of whether the individual was on board the commercial launch vehicle at the time of the accident; or
(ii)
substantial damage to property that is not associated with commercial space launch activities and that is not located at the launch site; and
.
(b)
Other investigative agencies
Section 1131(a)(2) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(D)
The Board shall seek to enter into a memorandum of agreement with any Government agency with the authority to certify a commercial space transportation operation or investigate a commercial space transportation accident. Such memoranda shall delineate the conditions under and manner in which—
(i)
a commercial space transportation accident that may be investigated by the Board under subparagraph (F) or (G) of paragraph (1) will instead be investigated by the other Government agency; and
(ii)
the Board will participate in such other Government agency’s investigation.
(E)
For an occurrence in commercial space transportation other than an accident described in paragraph (1)(F), the Board may only investigate such occurrence—
(i)
in accordance with the terms of a memorandum of agreement with another Government agency described in subparagraph (D); or
(ii)
with the agreement of the Government agency responsible for investigating such occurrence.
.
(c)
Technical corrections
Section 1131(a)(2)(A) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking
or (F)
and inserting
(F), or (G)
.
(d)
Savings provision
None of the amendments made by subsection (a) or (b) shall be construed to limit the authority of the National Transportation Safety Board to investigate any other commercial space transportation accident that, in the judgement of the Board, falls under the authority of the Board under section 1131(a)(1)(G) (as redesignated by this Act).
