1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Guam Military Training and Readiness Act of 2014
.
2.
Establishment of a surface danger zone, Guam National Wildlife Refuge
(a)
Authority To establish
The Secretary of the Navy may establish a surface danger zone over the Guam National Wildlife
Refuge or any portion thereof if the Secretary determines that
establishment of a surface danger zone will support the operation by the
Department of the Navy of a live-fire training range complex on Andersen
Air Force Base, Northwest Field, to support training and operations.
(b)
Treatment of operations
The operation of a live-fire training range complex on Andersen Air Force Base, Northwest Field,
and associated surface danger zone, if established under subsection (a),
are deemed to be authorized uses of the Guam National Wildlife Refuge.
(c)
Closure to Public
(1)
Authority to close
The Secretary of the Navy may close to public use any road or trail within, or any portion of, the
Guam National Wildlife Refuge if the Secretary determines that military
operations, public safety, or national security require the closure.
(2)
Limited area and duration
The Secretary shall limit a closure under paragraph (1) to the minimum area and period that the
Secretary determines to be appropriate for the purpose for which the
closure is imposed.
(3)
Notification requirements
Before imposing a closure under paragraph (1), and for the duration of the closure, the Secretary
shall—
(A)
post and maintain appropriate warning notices regarding the closure; and
(B)
take appropriate steps to notify the public concerning of the closure.
(d)
Relation to refuge management and uses
Nothing in this section limits the management authority of the Secretary of the Interior over the
Guam
National Wildlife Refuge and other uses of the Guam National Wildlife
Refuge established pursuant to section 4 of the National Wildlife Refuge
System Administration Act of 1966 (
16 U.S.C. 668dd
) to the extent such
management authority and refuge uses are compatible with the authorities
provided to the Secretary of the Navy under subsections (a) and (c).
