1.
Department of Veterans
Affairs pilot program on claims adjudication centers of excellence
(a)
Pilot
program
The Secretary shall
carry out a three-year pilot program under which the Secretary shall establish
in the Department of Veterans Affairs 12 claims adjudication centers of
excellence in accordance with this section.
(b)
Selection of
locations
The Secretary shall select the three highest performing
regional offices in each of the four areas of the Veterans Benefits
Administration as the locations of the centers of excellence. To determine
which of the regional offices are the three highest performing, the Secretary
shall evaluate the quality and accuracy ratings of each of the regional offices
and the average number of days a claim submitted to each of the regional
offices is pending.
(c)
Focus of
centers
(1)
Selection of
medical conditions
Each center of excellence established under
this section shall focus on adjudicating claims relating to one medical
condition selected by the Secretary. The Secretary shall select medical
conditions for such purpose that are among the most complex and time consuming,
for purposes of adjudication, and that occur commonly enough to support the
work of the centers.
(2)
Adjudication of
other claims
If no claims relating to the medical condition which
is the focus of a center are pending adjudication, employees of the center
shall adjudicate claims relating to other medical conditions.
(d)
Employees
(1)
Employee
training
Each employee of a center of excellence established
under this section shall—
(A)
receive specific
training related to the medical condition on which the center where the
employee is employed is focused;
(B)
be required to
pass an examination designed to certify the employee’s ability to adjudicate
claims relating to such medical condition to a high performing standard;
and
(C)
work primarily, to
the extent practicable, adjudicating claims for which the employee has received
specialized training.
(2)
Employment at
more than one center
(A)
Concurrent
employment
No employee may be employed concurrently at more than
one center established under this section.
(B)
Subsequent
employment
If the Secretary determines appropriate, an employee
may move from one center to another as long as the employee receives
specialized training appropriate for the center to which the employee
moves.
(3)
Additional full
time employees authorized
The Secretary may assign additional
full-time employees to a regional office designated as a center of excellence
under this section as the Secretary determines necessary. For any full-time
employee of a regional office who is assigned to a center of excellence under
this section, the director of the regional office shall hire an additional
full-time employee at the regional office.
(e)
Deadline for
selection of medical conditions
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall select the medical conditions on which the claims adjudication centers of
excellence established under this section shall focus by not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
