1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ability to Repay Verification Enabling
Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Economic growth
requires access to affordable credit which depends on consumers’ ability to
understand the terms of any loans they make and the ability of lenders to have
an understanding of the consumers’ ability and willingness to repay
loans.
(2)
New laws enacted
by Congress require lenders to ascertain borrowers’ willingness and ability to
repay prior to making a loan.
(3)
Lenders and
consumers receive benefits such as quicker approval, lower interest rates,
protection of privacy, and stronger anti-fraud protections from automatic
underwriting utilizing existing databases.
(4)
Eleven States (Alabama, California,
Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Louisiana, Missouri, New York, Ohio, Oregon, and
Virginia) passed enabling legislation or rules enabling consumers who request
that third parties using consumer report information for purposes of
eligibility determination have efficient access to this information from the
State’s unemployment insurance database.
(5)
Fair Credit Reporting Act requirements
already require third parties using consumer report information for purposes of
eligibility determination to obtain and maintain consent agreements.
3.
Prohibition on
requirement for onward transfer of consent agreements
Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
the Secretary of Labor may not—
(1)
take any action to implement or enforce the
requirement described in the Unemployment Insurance Program Letter No. 19–12,
dated May 23, 2012, that a third-party consumer reporting agency that serves
only as a secure conduit to data from State unemployment compensation agencies
and that is not an agent of an individual obtain and maintain an informed
consent agreement from such individual if the third-party consumer reporting
agency seeks to obtain confidential unemployment compensation information with
respect to such individual from a State; or
(2)
issue, implement, administer, or enforce
any rule or other guidance that is the same as, or similar in effect to, the
requirement described in paragraph (1).
