1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fiscal Responsibility Using Government Accountability Laws Act of 2014
or the
FRUGAL Act
.
2.
Offshore Tax Policies Enforcement
(a)
Determination of extent of taxpayer compliance in reporting on foreign accounts
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Treasury Inspector General
for Tax Administration shall—
(A)
conduct an analysis designed to measure the extent to which taxpayers are reporting existing
foreign accounts and circumventing the 2003 Offshore Voluntary Compliance
Initiative, 2009 Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program, 2011 Offshore
Voluntary Disclosure Initiative, and 2012 Offshore Voluntary Disclosure
Programs and the extent to which taxpayers are properly utilizing offshore
voluntary disclosure initiatives, and
(B)
submit a report to Congress based on the analysis.
(2)
Report
The report required by paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
specify the extent to which taxpayers are circumventing offshore voluntary compliance initiatives
and the amount of lost revenue as a result of such circumvention, and
(B)
contain such recommendations as the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration considers is
necessary or appropriate for closing offshore tax loopholes and increasing
revenue collection from offshore sources.
(b)
Increase in educational outreach concerning taxpayer offshore tax obligations
(1)
In general
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall—
(A)
improve targeting taxpayers with offshore accounts by determining how taxpayers learned about the
offshore voluntary disclosure program and targeting outreach efforts about
offshore account reporting requirements to recent immigrants, and
(B)
use data gained from offshore programs—
(i)
to identify taxpayers with unreported foreign accounts, and
(ii)
to educate populations of taxpayers that might not be aware of their tax obligations related to
offshore income filing requirements.
(2)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue shall submit a report to Congress describing how the Internal
Revenue Service will close offshore tax loopholes and containing
recommendations for closing offshore tax loopholes and increasing revenue
collection from offshore sources.
3.
Reverse auctions in Government contracting
(a)
Revision of FAR
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Acquisition
Regulation shall be revised to clarify the provisions relating to the use
of reverse auctions by Federal agencies.
(b)
Guidelines
The revisions to the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall include guidelines for the most efficient
use of reverse auctions, including guidelines for ensuring that reverse
auctions uphold high quality standards and that small businesses can
continue to participate in the procurement process.
(c)
Reverse auction defined
In this section, the term
reverse auction
, with respect to a procurement by a Federal agency, means a real-time auction conducted through an
electronic medium by a group of offerors that compete against each other
by submitting bids for a contract or a task or delivery order, with the
ability to submit revised bids throughout the course of the auction, with
award made to the offeror that submits the lowest bid.
4.
Coin inventory management plan and report
(a)
Plan required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System shall develop and implement a plan to reduce
spending on coin inventory management.
(b)
Contents of plan
The plan required under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
assess factors that have increased coin management costs;
(2)
establish a process to separately monitor direct and indirect costs, including support costs, of
coin management;
(3)
establish goals and performance metrics related to coin management costs; and
(4)
establish a process to systematically track, analyze, and revise forecasting models of coin orders.
(c)
Report
The Board of Governors shall submit to Congress a report on the plan that includes—
(1)
a timeline for implementing each objective of the plan;
(2)
a description of the accuracy of monthly forecasts of coin orders; and
(3)
a description of cost effective coin management practices across Federal reserve banks.
