1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
B-On-Time Student Loan Relief Act of 2014
.
2.
B-On-Time Loans and Loan Forgiveness
Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the
end the following new part:
J
B-On-Time Loans
499A.
Loan requirements
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall carry out a program to—
(1)
award loans with an applicable rate of interest of zero to eligible students for study at an
institution of higher education; and
(2)
forgive the outstanding principal on such loans awarded to students who meet the requirements of
subsection (c).
(b)
Student eligibility for loans
To be eligible to receive a loan under subsection (a)(1), a student shall meet any requirements
that the Secretary may require, which shall include requirements that the
student—
(1)
(A)
has graduated on or after the 2013–2014 school year from a secondary school in the United States or
a secondary school operated by the Department of Defense, or its
equivalent; or
(B)
has earned an associate’s degree from an institution of higher education on or after May 1, 2013;
(2)
has not earned a bachelor’s degree;
(3)
is enrolled as a full-time student in an undergraduate degree or certificate program at an
institution of higher education; and
(4)
has completed a FAFSA and meets the requirements of section 484(a).
(c)
Student eligibility for loan forgiveness
To be eligible to receive loan forgiveness under subsection (a)(2), a student shall meet any
requirements that the Secretary may require, which shall include
requirements that the student—
(1)
receives a bachelor’s degree within a set timeframe, as determined by the Secretary;
(2)
while enrolled at the program of study at an institution of higher education for which the student
received a loan under subsection (a)(1)—
(A)
has maintained a certain grade point average; or
(B)
has majored in a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics field; and
(3)
meets any other requirements as determined by the Secretary.
(d)
Priority
The Secretary shall award loans under subsection (a)(1) and grant loan forgiveness under subsection
(a)(2) on a first-come, first-served basis, and subject to the
availability of appropriations.
(e)
Rule of Construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a student from applying for other financial
assistance under this title.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for
fiscal year 2015 and each succeeding fiscal year through fiscal year 2024.
.
