1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Accessing Military Education Benefits
Act
.
2.
Department of
Defense efforts to ensure operation of current prohibition on accrual of
interest on direct student loans of members of the Armed Forces receiving
imminent danger pay or hazardous duty pay
(a)
Members
receiving imminent danger pay
Section 310
of title 37, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(f)
No accrual of
student loan interest for members serving in areas of hostilities
When a member is assigned to duty in an
area for which special pay is available under subsection (a), the Secretary of
Defense shall ensure that, if the member has any direct student loans, the
member automatically obtains the benefits provided under section 455(o) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1087e(o)
). The Secretary may waive
application of this subsection if the Secretary certifies that such application
may adversely impact the national security interests of the United
States.
.
(b)
Members
receiving hazardous duty pay
Section 351 of such title is
amended—
(1)
by redesignating
subsection (h) as subsection (i); and
(2)
by inserting after
subsection (g) the following new subsection (h):
(h)
No accrual of
student loan interest for members serving in areas of hostilities
When a member is assigned to duty in an
area for which special pay is available under paragraph (1) or (3) of
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that, if the member has
any direct student loans, the member automatically obtains the benefits
provided under section 455(o) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1087e(o)). The Secretary may waive application of this subsection if the
Secretary certifies that such application may adversely impact the national
security interests of the United
States.
.
(c)
Implementation
Not later than 90 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a plan
describing how the Secretary will implement the amendments made by this section
to ensure that members of the Armed Forces automatically obtain the benefits
provided under section 455(o) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1087e(o)). Implementation of the plan shall commence not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
