1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Opioid Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 2014
.
2.
Pilot project
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall award grants to one or more States to carry out a 1-year pilot project to develop a
standardized peer review process and methodology to review and evaluate
prescribing and pharmacy dispensing patterns, through a review of
prescription drug monitoring programs (referred to in this section as
PDMP
) in the States receiving such grants.
(b)
Methodology
The recipients of a grant under this section shall develop a systematic, standardized methodology
to identify and investigate questionable or inappropriate prescribing and
dispensing patterns of substances on schedule II or III under section 202
of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 812
). Such peer review
methodology and prescribing and dispensing patterns shall be shared with
the appropriate State regulators and health profession boards.
(c)
Requirements
A State receiving a grant under this section—
(1)
with respect to controlled substances for which a prescriber is required to be registered with by
the Drug Enforcement Administration in order to prescribe such controlled
substances, shall make the information with respect to such controlled
substances from the PDMP available to State regulators and licensing
boards; and
(2)
with respect to any other controlled substances, may make the information with respect to such
controlled substances from the PDMP available to State regulators and
licensing boards.
(d)
Subgrantees
A quality improvement organization with which the Secretary has entered into a contract under part
B of title XI of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1320c et seq.
) may
serve as the subgrantee under this subsection to develop peer review
processes as described in subsection (a).
3.
Prescription drug, heroin, and other controlled substance abuse prevention
Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 280g
) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
399V–6.
Prescription drug, heroin, and other controlled substance abuse prevention
(a)
Training grants
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall award 5-year grants to eligible entities to facilitate training in order to
increase the capacity of health care providers to conduct patient
screening, brief interventions, and referral to treatment as needed, such
as in health care settings to prevent the abuse of prescription drugs,
heroin, and other controlled substances. The grant program under this
section may be coordinated with the Screening Brief Intervention and
Referral to Treatment grant program of the Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration, or other appropriate programs.
(2)
Eligible entities
In this subsection, the term
eligible entity
includes—
(A)
States;
(B)
physician organizations;
(C)
continuing education entities, such as health profession boards or health accrediting bodies;
(D)
peer recovery organizations; and
(E)
other appropriate health or professional education organizations or institutions.
(b)
Expansion of prescribing authority
The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services
Administration, shall award grants to States for the purpose of evaluating
the prospect of the health professions board of such States reviewing and
expanding prescribing authorities of providers, such as advance practice
nurses and physician's assistants, with respect to prescribing drugs for
the treatment of the abuse of prescription drugs, heroin, or other
controlled substances.
.
4.
Prescription drug abuse training and screening programs
(a)
Continuing education grants
The Secretary shall award grants to States to develop continuing education criteria and review
processes that allow State health profession boards or State agencies to
certify appropriate education and training for informed and safe
prescribing of opioids and other drugs listed on schedule II or III under
section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 812
).
(b)
Screening program
The Attorney General shall request that a practitioner registered under section 303(f) of the
Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 823(f)
) conduct patient screening for
potential drug misuse or abuse before prescribing a drug listed on
schedule II or III under section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 812), according to standards established by the applicable State
licensing body.
5.
FDA review of naloxone
The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall conduct a review of
naloxone to consider whether naloxone should cease to be subject to
section 503(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
353(b)) and be available as an over-the-counter drug, in order to increase
access to such drug.
6.
Prescription drug disposal
The Secretary shall convene or coordinate with an existing entity an interagency working group—
(1)
to encourage States and local governments to increase opportunities for disposal of opiates, such
as frequent
take-back programs
and fixed medicine disposal sites at law enforcement public buildings; and
(2)
to reduce opportunities for abuse of opiates, such as establishing opioid dispensing limits at
hospital emergency departments.
7.
GAO report
The Comptroller General of the United States shall—
(1)
review opioid abuse programs, heroin abuse programs, and policies in Federal agencies and best
practices with respect to opioid and heroin abuse and overdose programs of
the States; and
(2)
not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, issue a report to Congress on its
findings and recommendations on ways to reduce opioid and heroin abuse and
overdoses.
