1.
Veterans benefits for merchant mariners who served during the Vietnam Era in the Southeast Asia
theater of operations
(a)
Eligibility for veterans benefits
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the service of an eligible individual described in
subsection (b)(1) shall be considered to be active duty in determining the
individual’s eligibility for veterans benefits under all laws administered
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(b)
Eligible individual
In this Act, the term
eligible individual
means an individual in the United States merchant marine who—
(1)
served as a crewmember of a vessel that was in oceangoing service during the Vietnam Era in the
Southeast Asia theater of operations; and
(2)
receives a certificate of honorable discharge under subsection (c).
(c)
Documentation of service
(1)
Certificate of honorable discharge
The Secretary of Defense shall, upon application, issue a certificate of honorable discharge to an
individual in the United States merchant marine who served as a crewmember
of a vessel that was in oceangoing service during the Vietnam Era in the
Southeast Asia theater of operations who, as determined by the Secretary,
engaged in service of a nature and duration that warrants issuance of the
certificate.
(2)
Standards relating to service
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall apply the same standards relating to the nature
and duration of service that apply to the issuance of honorable discharges
under section 401(a)(1)(B) of the GI Bill Improvement Act of 1977 (38
U.S.C. 106 note).
(d)
Definitions
In this Act, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Individual in the United States merchant marine
The term
individual in the United States merchant marine
means any citizen or resident alien of the United States serving as a civilian or civil service
member of the United States merchant marine.
(2)
Vietnam Era
The term
Vietnam Era
means—
(A)
the period beginning on February 28, 1961, and ending on May 7, 1975, in the case of an individual
in the United States merchant marine who served in the Republic of Vietnam
during that period; and
(B)
the period beginning on August 5, 1964, and ending on May 7, 1975, in all other cases.
2.
Retroactive applicability
Section 1 shall apply to an individual eligible for veterans benefits under subsection (a) of such
section as if such section had been in effect as of the last date of the
individual’s service described in subsection (b)(1) of such section.
