1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fair and Independent Redistricting (FAIR) Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Constitution requires reapportionment of seats in the House of Representatives after each decennial census.
(2)
One of the greatest powers that the people have is the right to elect a representative who best represents the interests of the community.
(3)
States are required to redraw Congressional districts after reapportionment.
(4)
Independent citizens redistricting commissions are intended to develop Congressional redistricting plans that reflect the best interests of the people, not the incumbent political parties.
(5)
The Election Assistance Commission (EAC), which was established by the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA), is an independent, bipartisan commission charged with developing guidance and best practices for State voting systems.
3.
Development of best practice recommendations for states establishing independent redistricting commissions
(a)
Development
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Election Assistance Commission shall publish a report containing the Commission’s best practice recommendations that States may use in establishing and operating independent commissions to develop Congressional redistricting plans.
(b)
Consultation
In developing the recommendations required under this Act, the Election Assistance Commission shall consult with States that have implemented, or are considering implementing, independent commissions to develop Congressional redistricting plans, as well as individuals who have served on such commissions.
(c)
Dissemination
(1)
Public availability online
The Commission shall ensure that the report published under this section is available to the public online.
(2)
Notification of officials
Upon publishing the report under this section, the Commission shall notify each of the following that the report is available:
(A)
Each Member of Congress, including each Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress.
(B)
The chief executive officer and chief State election official of each State, as well as the head of each house of the legislature of each State. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
State
includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
