1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Women’s Preventive Health Awareness
Campaign
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following
findings:
(1)
Well-woman visits are the foundation on
which women’s preventive care is built. Such visits include not only specific
screening tests, but also a medical history, physical examination, evaluation
and counseling, and, as indicated, vaccinations.
(2)
Over the past 20
years, it has become clear that “one size does not fit all” when it comes to
prevention. Although a 30-year-old woman without risk factors for cervical
cancer may only need a Pap test with HPV co-testing every 5 years, the same
woman would need more frequent screening if she were infected with HIV or had a
history of cervical cancer precursors.
(3)
It is only after
taking a medical history and evaluating and counseling a patient that a
physician can make patient-specific recommendations for screening tests,
vaccinations, preventive medications, and other preventive services.
(4)
Well-woman visits
facilitate increased access to health care that is shown to identify chronic
disease risk factors, promote well-being, and decrease the likelihood or delay
the onset of a targeted disease or condition.
(5)
Heart disease, stroke, and other
cardiovascular diseases are the number one cause of death in American women,
claiming over 400,000 lives each year, or nearly one death each minute.
(6)
Women are less
likely than men to receive aggressive diagnosis and treatment for
cardiovascular diseases.
(7)
Women are more
likely than men to have forgone needed health care due to cost.
(8)
Between 2002 and
2010, screening mammography rates among women in the United States who were 50
years of age to 64 years of age declined from about 79 percent to 73
percent.
(9)
In 2009, only 53
percent of 18- to 64-year-olds in the United States reported having ever
received an HIV test.
(10)
The proportion of women in the United
States 22 years of age to 30 years of age who reported never having had a Pap
test increased from 6.6 percent in 2000 to 9.0 percent in 2010 despite current
recommendations that they receive a Pap test every three years.
(11)
In 2007, 29.3 percent of women in the
United States delivering a live birth did not receive any prenatal care in the
first trimester, even though first trimester prenatal care is recommended.
(12)
Among sexually active females in the United
States who are 16 years of age to 20 years of age, only 52.7 percent of such
females receiving benefits under the Medicaid program and 40.1 percent of such
females with health insurance coverage under commercial health insurance plans
were screened for genital Chlamydia infections during the measurement year, as
reported in 2008. A 2013 analysis published by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention found that for Chlamydia cases diagnosed in 2008 alone, the
associated lifetime direct medical costs amount to $516.7 million.
(13)
Almost half (49
percent) of the 6.7 million pregnancies in the United States each year (3.2
million) are unintended. Multiple studies have shown that improved access to
birth control significantly improves the health of women and their families, as
it is directly linked to improved maternal and infant health outcomes. Women
that plan their pregnancies are more likely to access prenatal care, improving
their own health and the health of their children.
(14)
Between 2006 and
2010, one-third of all pregnancies were conceived within 18 months of a
previous birth, an interval that is potentially harmful to the health of the
mother.
(15)
Improved access to family planning also
saves money. For every $1.00 invested in family planning, taxpayers save nearly
$4.00 in Medicaid-related expenses.
(16)
During the
2011–2012 flu season, 53 percent of pregnant women did not receive recommended
vaccination against influenza.
3.
Women’s
Preventive Health Awareness Campaign
Part P of title III of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280g et al.) is amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
399V–6.
Women’s
Preventive Health Awareness Campaign
(a)
In
general
The Secretary shall
provide for the planning and implementation of a national public outreach and
education campaign to raise public awareness, including provider awareness, of
women’s preventive health. Such campaign shall include the media campaign under
subsection (b) and the website under subsection (c) and shall provide for the
dissemination of information that—
(1)
describes the
guidelines for women’s preventive services, including the cervical cancer
recommendations updated in 2012, by the United States Preventive Services Task
Force, by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), and
by the American Cancer Society, the American Society for Colposcopy and
Cervical Pathology, and the American Society for Clinical Pathology;
(2)
promotes well-woman visits for health
assessments which include screenings, evaluations, counseling, immunizations,
and prenatal visits, as appropriate;
(3)
explains the women’s preventive services
that are required under section 2713 to be covered without cost-sharing by a
group health plan or a health insurance issuer offering group or individual
health insurance coverage that is not a grandfathered plan (as defined in
section 1251(e) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act); and
(4)
addresses health disparities in the area of
women’s prevention.
(b)
Media
campaign
(1)
In
general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of
this section, as part of the campaign under subsection (a), the Secretary shall
establish and implement a national media campaign.
(2)
Requirement of
campaign
The campaign implemented under paragraph (1)—
(A)
shall disseminate information about the
updated guidelines for women’s preventive services described in subsection
(a)(1), promote well-woman visits described in subsection (a)(2), and provide
information on the women’s preventive services described in subsection (a)(3);
and
(B)
may include the
use of television, radio, Internet, and other commercial marketing
venues.
(c)
Website
As part of the campaign under subsection
(a), the Secretary shall, in consultation with private sector experts or
through contract with a private entity including a medical association or
non-profit organization, maintain and update an Internet website to provide
information and resources about the updated guidelines for women’s preventive
services described in subsection (a)(1), promote well-woman visits, and provide
information on the women’s preventive services described in subsection (a)(3).
(d)
Funding
The
Secretary may use, out of any funds otherwise made available to the Department
of Health and Human Services, such sums as may be necessary to carry out this
section.
.
