1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Microturbine Manufacturing and Clean Energy Deployment Act of 2014
.
2.
Modification of energy credit for microturbine property
(a)
Increase in energy percentage
Clause (i) of
section 48(a)(2)(A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
and
at the end of subclause (III) and by adding at the end the following new subclause:
(V)
qualified microturbine property, and
.
(b)
Modification of definition of qualified microturbine property definition
Subparagraph (A) of section 48(c)(2) of such Code is amended—
(1)
by striking
2,000 kilowatts
in clause (i) and inserting
5,000 kilowatts
, and
(2)
by striking
and
at the end of clause (i), by striking the period at the end of clause (ii) and inserting
, and
, and by adding at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
has no single microturbine engine with a nameplate capacity of more than 500 kilowatts.
.
(c)
Elimination of per kilowatt limitation
Paragraph (2) of section 48(c) of such Code is amended by striking subparagraph (B), by
redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B), and by inserting after
subparagraph (B) (as so redesignated) the following new subparagraph:
(C)
Credit may not exceed credit amount allocated
(i)
In general
The amount of credit determined under this section for any taxable year with respect to any
qualified microturbine property placed in service by the taxpayer shall
not exceed the credit dollar amount allocated to the taxpayer under this
subparagraph with respect to such property.
(ii)
Aggregate limitation
The aggregate credits allowed under this section with respect to qualified microturbine property
shall not exceed $250,000,000.
(iii)
Allocation by Secretary
The Secretary shall allocate the dollar amount described in clause (ii) among the applicants for
such credit in such manner as the Secretary determines appropriate.
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to periods after the date of the enactment of this
Act, in taxable years ending after such date, under rules similar to the
rules of section 48(m) of such Code (as in effect on the day before the
date of the enactment of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1990).
