1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Our Vets Deserve Better Act
.
2.
Administrative and policy recommendations to improve the health care system of the Department of
Veterans Affairs
(a)
Meetings
(1)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs shall meet with the advisory committees described in paragraph (2)
to receive administrative and policy recommendations to improve the health
care system of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(2)
Advisory committees described
The advisory committees described in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
The Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs established by section 543
of title 38, United States Code.
(B)
The Genomic Medicine Program Advisory Committee established pursuant to the Federal Advisory
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
(C)
The Geriatrics and Gerontology Advisory Committee established under
section 7315
of title 38,
United States Code.
(D)
The Health Services Research and Development Service Scientific Merit Review Board established
pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
(E)
The Research Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses established by section 707 of the
Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (
Public Law 102–585
;
38 U.S.C. 527
note).
(F)
The Special Medical Advisory Group established under
section 7312
of title 38, United States Code.
(G)
The Veterans' Advisory Committee on Rehabilitation established under
section 3121
of title 38,
United States Code.
(H)
The Veterans' Rural Health Advisory Committee established pursuant to the Federal Advisory
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
(I)
Any other advisory committee the Secretary determines appropriate.
(b)
Report
Not later than 30 days after carrying out subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall—
(1)
submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate a
report on the administrative and policy recommendations received under
subsection (a)(1), including any administrative or legislative actions
required to carry out such recommendations; and
(2)
publish such report on the public Internet website of the Department.
