1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Wakefield Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
There are approximately 26,000,000 child and adolescent visits to the Nation’s emergency
departments every year.
(2)
Approximately 90 percent of children requiring emergency care are seen in general hospitals, not in
free standing children’s hospitals, with one-quarter to one-third of the
patients being seen in hospitals with no separate pediatric ward.
(3)
Injury and poisoning combined are the most common reason for pediatric emergency department visits,
accounting for nearly thirty percent of such visits, while respiratory
disorders such as asthma account for another 26 percent of pediatric
emergency department visits.
(4)
Up to one-quarter of children needing emergency care have special health care needs due to
underlying medical conditions such as asthma, diabetes, sickle-cell
disease, low birth weight, and Broncho pulmonary dysplasia.
(5)
The Emergency Medical Services for Children Program under section 1910 of the Public Health Service
Act is the only Federal program that focuses specifically on improving the
pediatric components of the emergency medical services (EMS) system.
(6)
The Emergency Medical Services for Children Program has, in the past and present, funded and
supported pediatric emergency care improvement initiatives in every State
and United States Territory to expand and improve emergency care for
children who need treatment for life threatening illnesses and injuries
by—
(A)
completing the only national assessment of pediatric pre-hospital emergency care in the Nation;
(B)
assessing the access to medical direction for emergency medical services providers treating and
transporting pediatric patients, appropriate pediatric equipment and
supplies on ambulances to treat children, and availability of
inter-facility transfer agreements and guidelines designed to expedite the
transfer of pediatric patients to the most appropriate facility;
(C)
assuring that Basic and Advance Life Support providers receive pediatric education to maintain
competencies necessary to treat pediatric patients; and
(D)
addressing regionalization of care and telemedicine that allow for timely transfers or care
delivery to critically ill or injured children in rural or tribal settings
where specialty care is not readily available.
(7)
The Emergency Medical Services for Children Program is celebrating its 30th anniversary, marking
three decades of driving key improvements in emergency medical services to
children, and should continue its mission to reduce child and youth
morbidity and mortality by supporting improvements in the quality of all
emergency medical and emergency surgical care children receive.
3.
Reauthorization of Emergency Medical Services for Children Program
Section 1910(d) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300w–9(d)
) is amended by striking
fiscal year 2014
and inserting
each of fiscal years 2014 through 2019
.
