1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Private Prison Information Act of 2014
.
2.
Freedom of Information Act applicable for contract prisons
(a)
In General
Records relating to the operation of a Contract Facility, and to prisoners held in Contract
Facilities, that are in the possession of an applicable entity shall be
subject to
section 552
of title 5, United States Code (popularly known as
the Freedom of Information Act), in the same manner as records maintained
by a Federal agency operating a Federal prison or other Federal detention
facility would be subject to such section of title 5, including—
(1)
the duty to release information about the operation of the non-Federal prison or detention
facility; and
(2)
the applicability of the exceptions and exemptions available under such section.
(b)
Regulations
A Federal agency that contracts with, or provides funds to, an applicable entity to incarcerate or
detain Federal prisoners in a non-Federal prison or detention facility
shall promulgate regulations or guidance to ensure compliance by the
applicable entity with
subsection (a)
.
(c)
No Federal funds for compliance
No Federal funds may be used to assist applicable entities with compliance with this section or
section 552
of title 5, United States Code.
(d)
Civil Action
Any party aggrieved by a violation of
section 552
of title 5, United States Code, by an applicable
entity, as such section is applicable to such an entity in accordance with
subsection (a)
, may, in a civil action, obtain appropriate relief, including an award under subsection (a)(4)(E)
of section 552 of such title 5, against the applicable entity for the
violation.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Applicable entity
The term
applicable entity
means—
(A)
a nongovernmental entity that directly or indirectly contracts with or receives funds from the
Federal Government to incarcerate or detain Federal prisoners in a
Contract Facility; or
(B)
a State or local governmental entity with a contract or intergovernmental service agreement with
the Federal Government to incarcerate or detain Federal prisoners in a
Contract Facility.
(2)
Contract Facility
The term
Contract Facility
means a prison or other correctional or detention facility that is—
(A)
owned or operated by a nongovernmental entity, a State, or a local government; and
(B)
incarcerates or detains Federal prisoners pursuant to a contract or intergovernmental agreement to
which any Federal agency is a party.
(3)
Federal prisoner
The term
Federal prisoner
means any person incarcerated, detained, or otherwise held under the custody, authority, or
jurisdiction of any Federal agency or department.
