1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Education Disaster Assistance Act
.
2.
Educational assistance under Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program during extended school closures due to natural disasters
Section 3313 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(k)
School closure during natural disasters
(1)
In general
An individual described in paragraph (2) shall be entitled to the following:
(A)
A monthly stipend in the amount to which the individual would be entitled were the individual pursuing the course of education at the institution of higher education.
(B)
An additional lump sum amount for any books, supplies, equipment, and other educational costs necessary by reason of pursuing the course solely by distance learning or replacing the course with an alternative course of education pursued solely by distance learning.
(2)
Individual described
An individual described in this paragraph is an individual pursuing a course of education at an institution of higher education using educational assistance under this chapter who—
(A)
is forced to discontinue pursuing such course at such institution by reason of a school closure described under paragraph (4); and
(B)
opts to—
(i)
pursue that course of education solely by distance learning; or
(ii)
pursue an alternative course of education solely by distance learning.
(3)
Duration
The duration of the monthly stipends payable to an individual under paragraph (1)(A) shall be the shorter of the following:
(A)
The period of time necessary to complete the quarter, semester, term or academic period during which the school closure described in paragraph (4) occurs.
(B)
Four months.
(4)
School closure
A school closure described in this paragraph is the closure of an institution of higher education—
(A)
by reason of a natural disaster;
(B)
for a period of time that—
(i)
the institution confirms will last for four weeks or longer; or
(ii)
the institution describes as indefinite and that endures for a period of four weeks or longer; and
(C)
that the Secretary confirms is covered for purposes of this subsection.
(5)
Natural disaster defined
In this subsection, the term
natural disaster
means a specific weather event or earth process, including a hurricane, tornados, wildfire or forest fire, earthquake, avalanche, mudslide, hailstorm, thunderstorm, lightning storm, freeze, blizzard, sinkhole, or other disastrous event that occurs as a result of such an event or process, that the President or the governor of a State declares a natural disaster.
(6)
No charge to entitlement
No additional charge shall be made to the entitlement of any individual to educational assistance under this chapter by reason of a payment under this subsection.
.
