1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Radio Consumer Protection Act of 2017
.
2.
Radio Consumer Protection Fund
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the
Radio Consumer Protection Fund
.
(b)
Authorization of Appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Radio Consumer Protection Fund such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the Radio Consumer Protection Fund.
(c)
Purposes; availability of funds
Amounts in the Radio Consumer Protection Fund shall be available to the Commission to make any payments to a broadcast radio station for costs that the station incurred resulting from the reorganization of broadcast television spectrum authorized under section 6403(b) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1452(b)
).
(d)
Limitation
Amounts made available to the Commission under subsection (c) shall be available until the end of fiscal year 2022.
(e)
Unused funds returned to the general fund of the treasury
If any amounts remain in the Radio Consumer Protection Fund after the end of fiscal year 2022, the Secretary shall transfer such amounts to the general fund of the Treasury.
3.
Expedited consideration of applications
The Commission shall expedite consideration and approval of applications from licensees of broadcast radio stations seeking to obtain special temporary authority to continue broadcasting during the reorganization of broadcast television spectrum authorized under section 6403(b) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1452(b)
).
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Broadcast radio station
The term
broadcast radio station
means any entity that is licensed by the Commission as an AM, FM, noncommercial educational FM, or FM Translator radio broadcast station under the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 151
et seq.).
(2)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Communications Commission.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
