1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Patient Experience in Research Act of 2017
.
2.
Pilot project for evaluation of psychological and social distress experienced by patients in certain clinical trials
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall carry out a pilot project under which—
(1)
no more than 3 sponsors each agree to evaluate—
(A)
the psychological and social distress experienced by patients participating in a qualified clinical trial, conducted by the respective sponsor, of a drug or biological product that is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition; and
(B)
the effects of providing psychological and social support to any such patients showing signs of distress on the primary outcome measures in the clinical trial; and
(2)
the Secretary waives the fee that would otherwise apply under section 736(a)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 379h(a)(1)
) to the submission by the respective sponsor of one human drug application for such drug or biological product that includes the data resulting from such evaluation.
(b)
Selection
The Secretary shall select the sponsors referred to in subsection (a) on a competitive basis not later than the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Meeting
The Secretary shall grant at least one meeting to each sponsor selected under subsection (b) for the specific purpose of discussing the activities to be carried out by the sponsor pursuant to this Act.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
biological product
has the meaning given to such term in section 351 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 262
).
(2)
The term
drug
has the meaning given to such term in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 321
).
(3)
The term
human drug application
has the meaning given to such term in section 735 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 379g
).
(4)
The term
qualified clinical trial
means a clinical trial in which all participating patients will be enrolled not later than the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(5)
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
(6)
The term
sponsor
means the sponsor of a drug or biological product.
