1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small Employer Retirement Savings Auto-Enrollment Credit Act
.
2.
Small employer retirement savings automatic enrollment credit
(a)
In general
Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
45S.
Auto-enrollment credit for retirement savings options provided by small employers
(a)
In general
For purposes of section 38, in the case of an eligible employer, the retirement auto-enrollment credit determined under this section for any taxable year is an amount equal to—
(1)
$500 for any taxable year occurring during the credit period, and
(2)
zero for any other taxable year.
(b)
Credit period
For purposes of subsection (a)—
(1)
In general
The credit period with respect to any eligible employer is the 3-taxable-year period beginning with the first taxable year for which the employer includes an eligible automatic contribution arrangement (as defined in section 414(w)(3)) in a qualified employer plan (as defined in section 4972(d)) sponsored by the employer.
(2)
Maintenance of arrangement
No taxable year with respect to an employer shall be treated as occurring within the credit period unless the arrangement described in paragraph (1) is included in the plan for such year.
(c)
Eligible employer
For purposes of this section, the term
eligible employer
has the meaning given such term in section 408(p)(2)(C)(i).
.
(b)
Credit To be part of general business credit
Subsection (b) of
section 38
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
plus
at the end of paragraph (35), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (36) and inserting
, plus
, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(37)
in the case of an eligible employer (as defined in section 45S(c)), the retirement auto-enrollment credit determined under section 45S(a).
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 45R the following new item:
Sec. 45S. Auto-enrollment credit for retirement savings options provided by small employers.
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.
