1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disaster Recovery and Opportunity Act of 2018
.
2.
Treatment as opportunity zones
(a)
In general
Section 1400Z–1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
Certain disaster zones
(1)
Designation
With respect to a Federally declared disaster, the chief executive officer of a State may designate under this paragraph not more than 5 percent of the applicable disaster tracts in such State with respect to such disaster.
(2)
No effect on limitation on number of designations
An applicable disaster tract designated under paragraph (1) shall not be taken into account in determining the limitation under subsection (d).
(3)
Applicable disaster tract
The term
applicable disaster tract
means, with respect to a Federally declared disaster, a population census tract in the disaster area related to such disaster.
(4)
Federally declared disaster; disaster area
In this subsection, the term
Federally declared disaster
and the term
disaster area
have the meaning given such terms in section 165(i).
(5)
Applicable start date
(A)
Qualified opportunity fund businesses and property
In the case of an applicable disaster tract designated under paragraph (1), subparagraphs (B)(i)(I), (C)(i), and (D)(i)(I) of section 1400Z–2(d)(2) shall each be applied by substituting
the applicable start date
for
December 31, 2017
.
(B)
Extension of determination period
In the case of an applicable disaster tract designated under paragraph (1), section (c)(2)(B) shall be applied by substituting
the applicable start date
for
the date of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
.
(C)
Applicable start date
The term
applicable start date
means, with respect to a disaster area, the earliest incident date specified in the declaration to which such area relates.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to Federally declared disasters declared after the date of the enactment of this Act.
