1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Migratory Bird Framework and Hunting Opportunities for Veterans Act
.
2.
Federal closing date for hunting of ducks, mergansers, and coots
Section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (
16 U.S.C. 704
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Federal closing date for hunting of ducks, mergansers, and coots
(1)
In general
In promulgating regulations under subsection (a) relating to a framework for migratory bird hunting, except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall establish January 31 of each year as the Federal closing date of the hunting season for ducks, mergansers, and coots.
(2)
Special duck hunting days for youths, veterans, and active military personnel
Notwithstanding the closing date under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall allow youths, veterans (as defined in section 101 of title 38, United States Code), and members of the Armed Forces on active duty, including members of the National Guard and Reserves on active duty (other than for training), to hunt ducks, mergansers, and coots during the first weekend in February of each year.
(3)
Prohibition
With respect to ducks, mergansers, and coots, the Secretary shall not decrease the length of the hunting season or bag limit, as compared to the length of the hunting season and bag limit for the 2017–2018 hunting season, in—
(A)
the Atlantic flyway;
(B)
the Mississippi flyway;
(C)
the Central flyway; or
(D)
the Pacific flyway.
(4)
Regulations
(A)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations in accordance with this subsection.
(B)
2018–2019 migratory bird hunting season
The Secretary shall modify the proposed rule entitled
Migratory Bird Hunting; Proposed Frameworks for Migratory Bird Hunting Regulations
(83 Fed. Reg. 4964 (February 2, 2018)), if, before the date of enactment of this subsection—
(i)
the proposed rule has been finalized; and
(ii)
the 2018–2019 duck hunting season has not commenced in—
(I)
the Atlantic flyway;
(II)
the Mississippi flyway;
(III)
the Central flyway; or
(IV)
the Pacific flyway.
.
