1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017
.
2.
Support for law enforcement agencies
(a)
Interagency collaboration
The Attorney General shall consult with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress a report, which shall be made publicly available, on Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs mental health practices and services that could be adopted by Federal, State, local, or tribal law enforcement agencies.
(b)
Case studies
The Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services shall submit to Congress a report—
(1)
that is similar to the report entitled
Health, Safety, and Wellness Program Case Studies in Law Enforcement
published by the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services in 2015; and
(2)
that focuses on case studies of programs designed primarily to address officer psychological health and well-being.
(c)
Peer mentoring pilot program
Section 1701(b) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 3796dd(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (21), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
in paragraph (22), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(23)
to establish peer mentoring mental health and wellness pilot programs within State, tribal, and local law enforcement agencies.
.
3.
Support for mental health providers
The Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall develop resources to educate mental health providers about the culture of Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement agencies and evidence-based therapies for mental health issues common to Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement officers.
4.
Support for officers
The Attorney General shall—
(1)
in consultation with Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies—
(A)
identify and review the effectiveness of any existing crisis hotlines for law enforcement officers;
(B)
provide recommendations to Congress on whether Federal support for existing crisis hotlines or the creation of an alternative hotline would improve the effectiveness or use of the hotline; and
(C)
conduct research into the efficacy of an annual mental health check for law enforcement officers;
(2)
in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the head of other Federal agencies that employ law enforcement officers, examine the mental health and wellness needs of Federal law enforcement officers, including the efficacy of expanding peer mentoring programs for law enforcement officers at each Federal agency; and
(3)
ensure that any recommendations, resources, or programs provided under this Act protect the privacy of participating law enforcement officers.
