1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Border Tunnel Task Force Act
.
2.
Border tunnel detection
(a)
In general
Subtitle B of title IV of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 211
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
420.
Border Tunnel Task Forces
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish Border Tunnel Task Forces in jurisdictions in which such Border Tunnel Task Forces can contribute to border security missions after evaluating—
(1)
whether the areas in which such Border Tunnel Task Forces would be established are significantly impacted by cross-border threats; and
(2)
the availability of Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement resources to participate in such Border Tunnel Task Forces.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of the Border Tunnel Task Forces under subsection (a) is to enhance and integrate border security efforts by addressing and reducing cross-border tunnel related threats and violence by—
(1)
facilitating collaboration among Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement agencies to execute coordinated activities in furtherance of border security and homeland security; and
(2)
enhancing information-sharing, including the dissemination of homeland security information, among such agencies.
(c)
Composition and establishment of Border Tunnel Task Forces
Border Tunnel Task Forces may be comprised of the following:
(1)
Personnel from U.S. Customs and Border Protection, including the U.S. Border Patrol.
(2)
Personnel from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, including Homeland Security Investigations.
(3)
Personnel from other Department components and offices, as appropriate.
(4)
Personnel from other Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement agencies, as appropriate.
(5)
Other appropriate personnel at the discretion of the Secretary.
(d)
Duplication of efforts
In determining whether to establish a new Border Tunnel Task Force or to expand an existing Border Tunnel Task Force in a given jurisdiction, the Secretary shall ensure that the Border Tunnel Task Force under consideration does not duplicate the efforts of other existing interagency task forces or centers within such jurisdiction.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 419 the following new item:
Sec. 420. Border Tunnel Task Forces.
.
