1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Seniors Access to Proper Care Act of 2017
.
2.
Permitting certain non-enrolled physicians or practitioners to prescribe covered outpatient drugs under medicare part d
(a)
In general
Section 1860D–4 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–103
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(m)
Removal of enrollment restriction
(1)
In general
Nothing in this title or section 6405(c) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act shall be construed as authorizing the Secretary to require, as a condition of payment by a PDP sponsor for a covered part D drug that is prescribed by an applicable physician or practitioner who is authorized under State law to prescribe such drug, that such applicable physician or practitioner be enrolled under section 1866(j).
(2)
Applicable physician or practitioner defined
For purposes of paragraph (1), the term
applicable physician or practitioner
means an eligible professional described in section 1848(k)(3)(B) (other than a physician described in section 1861(r)(1))—
(A)
who—
(i)
is not excluded under this title or title XI;
(ii)
is not barred from participating in the program under this title for a period of time following a revocation under section 424.535(c) of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation); or
(iii)
meets other criteria similar to clauses (i) and (ii) that may be specified by the Secretary; and
(B)
who prescribes a low volume (as determined by the Secretary) of such drugs to individuals enrolled in plans under this part.
In determining low volume under subparagraph (B), the Secretary may determine low volume
differently based on the specialty of the applicable physician or
practitioner.
.
(b)
Effective date and enforcement delay
(1)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to covered part D drugs prescribed on or after January 1, 2019.
(2)
Delay in enforcement of enrollment requirement until low volume exemption is implemented
The Secretary shall continue not to enforce the enrollment requirement under clauses (ii) through (v) of section 423.120(c)(6) of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, until section 1860D–4(m), as added by subsection (a), takes effect.
