1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DHS Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator Act
.
2.
Unmanned Aircraft Systems Countermeasures Coordinator
(a)
In general
Title III of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
321.
Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator
(a)
Coordinator
The Secretary shall designate an official of the Department as the Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Coordinator (in this section referred to as the
Coordinator
) to coordinate with relevant Department offices and components on the development of policies and plans to counter threats associated with UAS, including—
(1)
countering UAS that may be used in a terrorist attack;
(2)
promoting research and development of counter UAS technologies;
(3)
ensuring the dissemination of information and guidance related to countering UAS threats;
(4)
serving as the Department point of contact for Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement entities and the private sector regarding the Department’s activities related to countering UAS; and
(5)
carrying out other related UAS activities, as directed by the Secretary.
(b)
Coordination with applicable Federal laws
The Coordinator shall, in addition to other assigned duties, coordinate with relevant Department components and offices to ensure testing, evaluation, or deployment of a system used to identify, assess, or defeat a UAS is carried out in accordance with applicable Federal laws.
(c)
Coordination with private sector
The Coordinator shall, working with the Office of Partnership and Engagement and other relevant Department offices and components, or other Federal agencies, as appropriate, serve as the principal Department official responsible for disseminating to the private sector information regarding counter UAS technology, particularly information regarding instances in which counter UAS technology may impact lawful private sector services or systems.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendments
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by striking the items relating to sections 317, 319, 318, and 319 and inserting the following new items:
Sec. 317. Promoting antiterrorism through international cooperation program.
Sec. 318. Social media working group.
Sec. 319. Transparency in research and development.
Sec. 320. EMP and GMD mitigation research and development.
Sec. 321. Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator.
.
