1.
Short Title
This Act may be cited as the
Abraham Lincoln Medal for Public Sacrifice Act of 2017
.
2.
Establishment
(a)
Medal established
There is established a medal referred to as the
Abraham Lincoln Medal for Public Sacrifice
.
(b)
Award
The President shall award the medal established under subsection (a) to each qualified individual whom the President determines to be wounded or killed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act in circumstances in which the death or wound is—
(1)
the result of an attack—
(A)
targeted on the qualified individual as a result of the status of such qualified individual as an officer or employee of the Federal Government; or
(B)
that occurs while the qualified individual is acting in an official capacity as an officer or employee of the Federal Government; and
(2)
not the result of willful misconduct or negligence of such qualified individual.
(c)
Special authority for retroactive award
The President may award the medal established under subsection (a) to qualified individuals wounded or killed prior to the date of the enactment of this Act in circumstances listed in subsection (b).
(d)
Design and striking
The Secretary of the Treasury shall design and strike the medal established under subsection (a) with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, and ensure that the medal does not closely resemble the Purple Heart.
(e)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Qualified individual
The term
qualified individual
means an officer or employee of the Federal Government other than a member of the armed forces.
(2)
Armed forces
The term
armed forces
has the meaning given the term in section 2101 of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
Employee
The term
employee
has the meaning given the term in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code.
(4)
Officer
The term
officer
has the meaning given the term in section 2104 of title 5, United States Code.
(5)
Wound
The term
wound
means an injury to any part of the body directly from an outside force or agent that requires medical treatment.
