1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transnational Criminal Organization Exploitation Threat Assessment Act
.
2.
Threat assessment
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security, shall conduct a threat assessment of the exploitation by transnational criminal organizations of the unaccompanied alien children services program.
(b)
Consultation
In preparing the threat assessment required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Attorney General, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Director of National Intelligence, and the heads of other Federal departments and agencies, as appropriate, to ensure that such threat assessment is informed by current information about homeland security threats posed by transnational criminal organizations.
(c)
Recommendations
Upon completion of the threat assessment required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall make a determination if any changes are required to address security vulnerabilities identified in such assessment that are exploited by transnational criminal organizations in the unaccompanied alien children services program. If changes to the unaccompanied alien children services program are required, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall direct the Department of Homeland Security component agencies, including U.S. Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, to address such vulnerabilities, as appropriate.
(d)
Distribution
Upon completion of the threat assessment required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security shall disseminate such threat assessment to Federal partners, including the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Attorney General, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Director of National Intelligence, and State and local partners, including State, local, and regional fusion centers.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Transnational criminal organization
The term
transnational criminal organization
means a group of persons that includes one or more foreign persons that engages in an ongoing pattern of serious criminal activity involving the jurisdictions of at least two foreign countries and that threatens the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States.
(2)
Unaccompanied alien children services program
The term
unaccompanied alien children service program
means the program described in section 462 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 279
).
