1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
FTO Passport Revocation Act of 2017
.
2.
Revocation or denial of passports to individuals affiliated with foreign terrorist organizations
The Act entitled
An Act to regulate the issue and validity of passports, and for other purposes
, approved July 3, 1926 (
22 U.S.C. 211a
et seq.), commonly known as the
Passport Act of 1926
, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
4.
Authority to deny or revoke passport
(a)
Ineligibility
(1)
Issuance
Except as provided under subsection (b), the Secretary of State shall refuse to issue a passport to any individual whom the Secretary has determined—
(A)
is a member of or is otherwise affiliated with an organization the Secretary has designated as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
); or
(B)
has aided, abetted, or provided material support to such an organization.
(2)
Revocation
The Secretary of State shall revoke a passport previously issued to any individual described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Exceptions
(1)
Emergency circumstances, humanitarian reasons, and law enforcement purposes
Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary of State may issue to or decline to revoke a passport of an individual described in such subsection in emergency circumstances, for humanitarian reasons, or for law enforcement purposes.
(2)
Limitation for return to United States
Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2), the Secretary of State, before revocation, may—
(A)
limit a previously issued passport only for return travel to the United States; or
(B)
issue a limited passport that only permits return travel to the United States.
(c)
Right of review
Any individual who, in accordance with this section, is denied issuance of a passport by the Secretary of State, or whose passport is revoked or otherwise limited by the Secretary, may request a hearing before the Secretary not later than 60 days after receiving notice of such denial, revocation, or limitation.
(d)
Report
If the Secretary of State denies, issues, limits, or declines to revoke a passport under subsection (b), the Secretary shall, not later than 30 days after such denial, issuance, limitation, or revocation, submit to Congress a report on such denial, issuance, limitation, or revocation, as the case may be.
(e)
Rule of construction
In this section, the term
passport
includes a passport card.
.
