1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Tax Credit for Veterans and Retired Law Enforcement Officers for Securing Schools Act
.
2.
Credit for qualified special law enforcement officers
(a)
In general
Subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 25D the following new section:
25E.
Credit for qualified special law enforcement officers
(a)
Allowance of credit
In the case of a qualified special law enforcement officer, there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter for a taxable year an amount equal to $1,500.
(b)
Qualified special law enforcement officer
For purposes of this section—
(1)
In general
The term
qualified special law enforcement officer
means an individual—
(A)
employed part-time by a local law enforcement agency to patrol one or more qualified schools, and
(B)
who is, on the date such individual is first so employed, a qualified veteran or a qualified retired law enforcement officer.
(2)
Qualified school
The term
qualified school
means—
(A)
an elementary school or secondary school (as such terms are defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965), or
(B)
an institution of higher education (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965).
(3)
Qualified veteran
The term
qualified veteran
means an individual who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable.
(4)
Qualified retired law enforcement officer
The term
qualified retired law enforcement officer
has the meaning given such term by section 926C of title 18, United States Code.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 25D the following new item:
Sec. 25E. Credit for qualified special law enforcement officers.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
