1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing Children in Schools Act of 2018
.
2.
Additional grants for school security
Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
OO
Additional grants for school security
3040.
Program authorized
(a)
In general
The Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (in this section referred to as the
Director
) is authorized to make grants to States, units of local government, and Indian tribes to provide for the placement and use of metal detectors and other screening technologies at schools and on school grounds.
(b)
Uses of funds
Grants awarded under this section shall be distributed directly to the State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe, and shall be used to improve security at schools and on school grounds in the jurisdiction of the grantee through the placement and use of metal detectors and other screening technologies.
(c)
Preferential consideration
In awarding grants under this subchapter, the Director shall give preferential consideration, if feasible, to an application from a jurisdiction that has a demonstrated need for improved security, has a demonstrated need for financial assistance, and has evidenced the ability to make the improvements for which the grant amounts are sought.
(d)
Equitable distribution
In awarding grants under this subchapter, the Director shall ensure, to the extent practicable, an equitable geographic distribution among the regions of the United States and among urban, suburban, and rural areas.
(e)
Administrative costs
The Director may reserve not more than 2 percent from amounts appropriated to carry out this subchapter for administrative costs.
3041.
Applications
(a)
In general
To request a grant under this part, the chief executive of a State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Attorney General may require. Each application shall—
(1)
include a detailed explanation of—
(A)
the intended uses of funds provided under the grant;
(B)
how the activities funded under the grant will meet the purpose of this part; and
(C)
how the school will limit their points of entry to ensure safety; and
(2)
be accompanied by an assurance that the application was prepared after consultation with individuals not limited to law enforcement officers (such as school violence researchers, child psychologists, social workers, teachers, principals, and other school personnel) to ensure that the improvements to be funded under the grant are—
(A)
consistent with a comprehensive approach to preventing school violence; and
(B)
individualized to the needs of each school at which those improvements are to be made.
(b)
Guidelines
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this part, the Attorney General shall promulgate guidelines to implement this section (including the information that must be included and the requirements that the States, units of local government, and Indian tribes must meet) in submitting the applications required under this section.
3042.
Annual report to congress
Not later than November 30th of each year, the Attorney General shall submit a report to the Congress regarding the activities carried out under this part. Each such report shall include, for the preceding fiscal year, the number of grants funded under this part, the amount of funds provided under those grants, the activities for which those funds were used, and the number of weapons detected and confiscated by the use of metal detectors and other screening technologies placed and used using funds provided under this part.
3043.
Definitions
For purposes of this part—
(1)
the term
school
means a public elementary or secondary school;
(2)
the term
unit of local government
means a county, municipality, town, township, village, parish, borough, or other unit of general government below the State level;
(3)
the term
Indian tribe
has the same meaning as in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 450b(e)
); and
(4)
the term
screening technologies
means technologies including—
(A)
walk through metal detection portals;
(B)
stand-off screening technologies;
(C)
explosive trace detection; and
(D)
computed tomography equipment and X-ray imaging equipment for carried and personal belonging screening.
3044.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2029.
.
