1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medication Automated Quotation System, or MEDAQ, Act of 2018
.
2.
Study on the feasibility of creating a system that tracks prescription drug costs
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General of the United States, in consultation with the Commissioner of Food and Drugs and the Administrator of CMS, shall conduct a study on the feasibility of establishing a medication automated quotation system.
(b)
Elements
The feasibility study required under subsection (a) shall include assessments of the following:
(1)
The feasibility of—
(A)
collecting or compiling data on the acquisition price per unit that any purchaser (including but not limited to a distributor, a retailer, a third-party payor, or ultimate consumer) pays for a prescription drug and the effect PBMs and other involved entities have on such prices; and
(B)
aggregating such data in a manner that does not reveal personally identifiable information.
(2)
The cost of procuring and maintaining a medication automated quotation system, or MEDAQ, based on the above data.
(3)
The need for new or additional laws, regulations, or policies to collect the data necessary for a medication automated quotation system to track and generate prescription drug pricing data in the United States.
(4)
The possibility of integrating or using the FDA's NDC system and CMS NADAC when creating the MEDAQ.
(5)
Integration of CMS NADAC when creating the MEDAQ and, not withstanding any other provision of this Act, shall not consider pharmacy reporting, collecting, or compiling requirements beyond or in addition to the requirements of CMS NADAC.
(6)
Whether the system described under subsection (a) is likely to be effective in reducing overall prescription drug prices by increasing competition and transparency in the drug industry.
(c)
Report
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).
(d)
Medication automated quotation system defined
The term
medication automated quotation system
or
MEDAQ
means an automated and searchable system that—
(1)
with respect to the United States (and with respect to each region thereof), tracks and generates data on the acquisition price per unit of any prescription drug that a purchaser pays for such unit of such drug;
(2)
produces reports in real time on average prices per unit and other data; and
(3)
is accessible to purchasers, who have paid a user fee, with limitations to ensure appropriate privacy but also transparency in price negotiations.
