1.
Enhancement of authority for members of the Armed Forces to obtain
professional credentials
(a)
In general
Paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of
section 2015
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
striking
professional accreditation
and all that follows through
certification
and inserting
State-imposed licenses, Federal occupational licenses, and professional certification
.
(b)
Limitations
Subsection (b) of such section is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
before
The authority
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(2)
The authority under subsection (a) may not be used to pay the expenses of a member to obtain
professional credentials unless such credentials are recognized and
approved by the armed force concerned as necessary to meet—
(A)
readiness
requirements or professional occupational development goals of such armed
force; or
(B)
the self-development requirements of the member.
(3)
Except as provided in paragraph (4), the authority under subsection (a) may not be used to pay the
expenses of obtaining professional credentials unless—
(A)
such credentials are accredited under International Organization for Standardization/International
Commission (ISO/IEC) Standard 17024–2012, entitled
General Requirements for Bodies Operating Certification of Persons
; and
(B)
the entity accrediting such credentials provides documentary evidence to the Secretary of Defense
that it complies International Organization for
Standardization/International Commission Standard 17011, entitled
Conformity assessment—General requirements for accreditation bodies accrediting conformity
assessment bodies
.
(4)
During the three-year period beginning on the date of the authorization of the Credentialing agency
by the
Department of Defense, the authority under subsection (a) may be used to
pay the expenses of obtaining professional credentials from an entity not
complying with the Standards referred to in paragraph (3) if the entity
certifies in writing to the Secretary of Defense that
the entity agrees to seek to obtain certification of compliance with the
Standards before the end of such period.
.
(c)
Funds available
Such section is further amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
may pay
in the matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting
may, using funds described in subsection (c), pay
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(c)
Funds available
Payments may be made under the authority under subsection (a) by the Secretary making such payments
from amounts available to such Secretary for tuition assistance for
members under the jurisdiction of
such Secretary.
.
(d)
Covered expenses
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Expenses defined
In this section, the term
expenses
means expenses for classroom instruction, hands-on training (and associated materials), manuals,
study guides and materials, text books, processing fees, and test fees and
related fees.
.
