1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Grid Reliability Act of 2014
.
2.
Grid reliability
(a)
Compliance under emergency orders
Section 202(c) of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 824a(c)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
(c) During
and inserting the following:
(c)
Temporary connection and exchange of facilities during emergency
(1)
In general
During
;
(2)
by striking
If the parties
and inserting the following:
(2)
Terms
If the parties
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Administration of orders conflicting with other laws
In the case of an order issued under this subsection that may result in a conflict with a
requirement of any Federal, State, or local environmental law (including a
regulation), the Commission shall ensure that the order—
(A)
requires generation, delivery, interchange, or transmission of electric energy only during hours
necessary to meet the emergency and serve the public interest; and
(B)
to the maximum extent practicable—
(i)
is consistent with any applicable Federal, State, or local environmental law (including a
regulation); and
(ii)
minimizes any adverse environmental impacts.
(4)
Applicability of other laws conflicting with orders
To the extent that an omission or action taken by a party to comply with an order issued under this
subsection (including any omission or action taken to voluntarily comply
with the order) results in noncompliance with, or causes a party to not
comply with, any Federal, State, or local environmental law (including a
regulation), the omission or action shall not be subject to any
requirement, civil or criminal liability, or a citizen suit under the
environmental law (or regulation).
(5)
Renewal or reissuance of orders conflicting with other laws
(A)
In general
An order issued under this subsection that may result in a conflict with a requirement of any
Federal, State, or local environmental law (including a regulation) shall
expire not later than 90 days after the date the order is issued.
(B)
Renewal or reissuance of orders
The Commission may renew or reissue the order in accordance with this subsection for subsequent
periods of not to exceed 90 days for each period, as the Commission
determines necessary to meet the emergency and serve the public interest.
(C)
Administration
In renewing or reissuing an order under this paragraph, the Commission shall—
(i)
consult with the primary Federal agency with expertise in the environmental interest protected by
the law (or regulation); and
(ii)
include in the renewed or reissued order such conditions as such Federal agency determines
necessary to minimize any adverse environmental impacts, to the maximum
extent practicable.
(D)
Public availability
Any conditions submitted by a Federal agency described in subparagraph (C)(i) shall be made
available to the public.
(E)
Exclusion of conditions
The Commission may exclude a condition described in subparagraph (D) from the renewed or reissued
order if the Commission—
(i)
determines that the condition would prevent the order from adequately addressing the emergency
necessitating the order; and
(ii)
provides in the order, or otherwise makes publicly available, an explanation of the determination.
(6)
Orders that are stayed, modified, or set aside
If an order issued under this subsection is subsequently stayed, modified, or set aside by a court
pursuant to section 313 or any other provision of law, any omission or
action previously taken by a party that was necessary to comply with the
order while the order was in effect (including any omission or action
taken to voluntarily comply with the order) shall remain subject to
paragraph (4).
.
(b)
Temporary connection or construction by municipalities
Section 202(d) of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 824a(d)
) is amended by inserting
or municipality
after
any person
.
