1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Do Not Disturb Act of 2014
.
2.
Prohibition of unsolicited calls from Super PACs to individuals listed on the National Do Not Call
Registry
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Trade Commission
shall issue a final rule, pursuant to its rulemaking authority under
section 3 of the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act
(
15 U.S.C. 6102
), that amends
section 310.4(b)(1)(iii)
of title 16, Code
of Federal Regulations, to include, in the list of persons subject to the
prohibitions set forth in such section—
(1)
political committees (as defined
in section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101)) that accept donations or contributions that do not comply with the
contribution limits or source prohibitions under such Act (commonly known
as Super PACs); and
(2)
social welfare organizations described in
section 501(c)(4)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
that are engaged in political activities.
3.
Prohibition of computer-dialed recorded messages to individuals listed on the National Do Not Call
Registry
Section 3(a)(3) of the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C.
6102(a)(3)) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking the comma at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the comma at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(3)
by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as subparagraphs (E) and (F), respectively; and
(4)
by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
(C)
a prohibition on computer-dialed telephone calls with prerecorded messages (other than calls made
for emergency purposes or made with the prior express consent of the
called party) to telephone numbers that are listed on the National Do Not
Call Registry;
.
4.
Push-polling
(a)
In general
Section 3(a)(3) of the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, as amended by
section 3, is further amended by inserting after subparagraph (C), as
added by section 3(4), the following:
(D)
a prohibition on push-polling;
.
(b)
Push-Polling defined
Section 3 of the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (
15 U.S.C. 6102
) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
(f)
Defined term
As used in subsection (a)(3), the term
push-polling
means a telephone call—
(1)
to a voter on behalf of, in support of, or in opposition to, any candidate for public office;
(2)
in which the caller asks questions related to opposing candidates for public office that state,
imply, or convey information about the candidates character, status, or
political stance or record; or
(3)
that is conducted in a manner that is likely to be construed by the voter to be a survey or poll to
gather statistical data for entities or organizations acting independent
of any particular political party, candidate, or interest group.
.
5.
Rulemaking
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Trade Commission
shall prescribe
regulations to implement the amendments made by this Act.
