1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
East Rosebud Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
.
2.
Findings; purpose
(a)
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
East Rosebud Creek is cherished by the people of Montana and visitors from across the United States
for the clean water, spectacular natural setting, and outstanding
recreational opportunities of the Creek;
(2)
recreational activities (including fishing, hunting, camping, paddling, hiking, rock climbing, and
wildlife watching) on East Rosebud Creek and the surrounding land
generate millions of dollars annually for the local economy;
(3)
East Rosebud Creek—
(A)
is a national treasure;
(B)
possesses outstandingly remarkable values; and
(C)
merits the high level of protection afforded by the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1271 et seq.) in order to maintain the benefits provided by the Creek, as described
in paragraphs (1) and (2), for future generations to enjoy; and
(4)
designation of select public land segments of East Rosebud Creek under the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C.
1271 et seq.) would recognize the importance of maintaining the values of the Creek
while preserving public access, respecting private property rights,
allowing appropriate maintenance of existing infrastructure, and allowing
historical uses of the Creek to
continue.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to designate East Rosebud Creek in the State of Montana as a
component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System to preserve and protect
for present and future generations the outstandingly remarkable scenic,
wildlife, fishery recreational, geologic, and historical values of the
Creek.
3.
Designation of wild and scenic river segments
(a)
In general
Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (
16 U.S.C. 1274(a)
) is amended by adding at the end
the
following:
(208)
East Rosebud Creek, Montana
The portions of East Rosebud Creek in the State of Montana, consisting of—
(A)
the 13-mile segment from the source in the Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness downstream to the point at
which the Creek enters East Rosebud Lake, including the stream reach
between Twin Outlets Lake and Fossil Lake,
to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river; and
(B)
the 7-mile segment on the Custer National Forest from immediately below, but not including, the
outlet of East Rosebud Lake
downstream to the point at which the Creek enters private property for the
first time,
to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational
river.
.
(b)
Exclusion of private property
No private property shall be included within the boundaries of the river segments designated by
paragraph (208) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16
U.S.C. 1274(a)).
4.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this Act (including
the amendments made by this Act).
