1.
Use of the Capitol Grounds for National Peace Officers Memorial Service
(a)
In general
The Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police and its auxiliary shall be permitted to sponsor a
public event, the 33rd Annual National Peace Officers Memorial Service (in
this resolution referred to as the
Memorial Service
), on the Capitol Grounds, in order to honor the law enforcement officers who died in the line of
duty during 2013.
(b)
Date of Memorial Service
The Memorial Service shall be held on May 15, 2014, or on such other date as the Speaker of the
House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of
the Senate jointly designate, with preparation for the event to begin on
May 12, 2014.
2.
Use of the Capitol Grounds for National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition
(a)
In general
The Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police and its auxiliary shall be permitted to sponsor a
public event, the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition (in this
resolution referred to as the
Exhibition
), on the Capitol Grounds, in order to allow law enforcement representatives to exhibit their
ability to demonstrate Honor Guard programs and provide for a bag pipe
exhibition.
(b)
Date of exhibition
The exhibition shall be held on May 14, 2014, or on such other date as the Speaker of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the
Senate jointly designate.
3.
Terms and conditions
(a)
In general
Under conditions to be prescribed by the Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, the
event shall be—
(1)
free of admission charge and open to the public; and
(2)
arranged not to interfere with the needs of Congress.
(b)
Expenses and liabilities
The sponsors of the Memorial Service and Exhibition shall assume full responsibility for all
expenses and liabilities incident to all activities associated with the
events.
4.
Event preparations
Subject to the approval of the Architect of the Capitol, the sponsors referred to in section 3(b)
are authorized to erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, sound
amplification devices, and other related structures and equipment, as may
be required for the Memorial Service and Exhibition.
5.
Enforcement of restrictions
The Capitol Police Board shall provide for enforcement of the restrictions contained in section
5104(c) of title 40, United States Code, concerning sales, advertisements,
displays, and solicitations on the Capitol Grounds, as well as other
restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds, in connection with the
events.
