1.
Conveyance of property
(a)
In general
As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, but not later than 180 days
after such date, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to
in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall convey to the Yukon Kuskokwim Health Corporation located in Bethel, Alaska, all the right,
title, and interest of the United States in and to the property described
in section 2 for use in connection with health and social services
programs.
(b)
Conditions
The conveyance required by this section shall be made by warranty deed without consideration and
without imposing any obligation, term, or condition on the Yukon Kuskokwim
Health Corporation, or reversionary interest of the United States, other
than that required by this Act or section 512(c)(2)(B) of the Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C.
458aaa–11(c)(2)(B)).
2.
Property described
The property, including all land and appurtenances, described in this section is that property
included in U.S. Survey No. 4000, Lot 2, township 8N, Range 71W, Seward
Meridian, containing 22.98 acres.
3.
Environmental liability
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of Federal law, the Yukon Kuskokwim Health Corporation shall
not be liable for any soil, surface water, groundwater, or other
contamination resulting from the disposal, release, or presence of any
environmental contamination, including any oil or petroleum products, or
any hazardous substances, hazardous materials, hazardous waste,
pollutants, toxic substances, solid waste, or any other environmental
contamination or hazard as defined in any Federal or State of Alaska law,
on any of the property described in section 2.
(b)
Easement
The Secretary shall be accorded any easement or access to the property conveyed under this Act as
may be reasonably necessary to satisfy and retrained obligations and
liability of the Secretary.
(c)
Notice of hazardous substance activity and warranty
In carrying out this Act, the Secretary shall comply with section 120(h)(3) (A) and (B) of the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9620(h)(3)(A)
).
