1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Short Line Railroad Safety Enhancement Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The use of new oil recovery techniques, particularly in regions without a sufficient number of
developed pipeline networks, has led to rapid growth in the transportation
of crude oil by rail.
(2)
Recent accidents in North America involving trains carrying crude oil, such as the July 2013
tragedy in Lac-Megantic, Quebec, have brought the need for enhanced safety
into focus.
(3)
Short line and regional railroads have workforces and resources that are much smaller than large
Class I railroads, but these railroads are expected to handle the same
commodities safely.
(4)
Cooperative safety reviews, assessments, and training approaches can enhance safety by fostering an
enhanced safety culture. Cooperation between industry and the Federal
Railroad Administration’s Research and Development Program would enhance
rail safety with respect to the transportation of crude oil by rail and in
all other areas of rail transportation.
3.
Short line and regional railroad safety grants
Section 20108
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Short line and regional railroad safety training initiative
(1)
Grants authorized
The Secretary may award grants to private or nonprofit organizations involved in, or affiliated
with, transportation by Class II and Class III railroads.
(2)
Use of funds
Grant funds awarded under this subsection shall be used for research, development, evaluation, and
training efforts that are designed to enhance rail safety practices and
safety culture.
(3)
Authorization of appropriations
(A)
Fiscal year 2015
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $2,000,000 for fiscal year
2015 for grants
under this subsection.
(B)
Fiscal years 2016 through 2019
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary for each of
the fiscal years
2016 through 2019 for grants
under this subsection.
(C)
Availability
Amounts appropriated pursuant to this paragraph
shall remain available until expended.
.
