1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Investing in Student Success Act of 2014
.
I
Authorization of Income Share Agreements
101.
Purpose; lawfulness of instruments; preemption of State law
(a)
Purpose
It is the purpose of this title to authorize individuals to enter into income share agreements for
the purposes of obtaining funds in exchange for agreeing to pay to the
holder of the contract a specified percentage of the individual’s future
income.
(b)
Lawfulness of contracts; preemption
Any income share agreement that complies with the requirements of section 102 shall be a valid,
binding, and enforceable contract notwithstanding any State law limiting
or otherwise regulating assignments of future wages or other income.
102.
Terms and conditions of income share agreement contracts
(a)
Definition of income share agreement
For purposes of this title, the term
income share agreement
means an agreement between an individual and any other person under which the individual commits
to pay a specified percentage of the individual’s future income, for a
specified period of time, in exchange for payments to or on behalf of such
individual for postsecondary education, workforce development, or other
purposes.
(b)
Terms and conditions of agreements
An income share agreement complies with the requirements of this section if the contract complies
with each of the following conditions:
(1)
Specified percentage of income
An income share agreement shall specify the percentage of future income which the individual will
be obligated to pay, except that the contract shall exempt, at a minimum,
the first $10,000 (adjusted each year to reflect changes in the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics of the Department of Labor for the most recent 12-month period
for which such data are available) of an individual’s income when
determining the individual’s obligation for a given year.
(2)
Definition of income
An income share agreement shall specify the definition of income to be used for purposes of
calculating an individual’s obligation under the contract.
(3)
Aggregate limitation on obligation
No eligible individual may enter into any income share agreement if the total percentage of such
individual’s future income that the individual agrees to pay under that
contract, and any other income share agreements of such individual,
exceeds 15 percent of such future income.
(4)
Specified duration; extension of period
An income share agreement shall specify the maximum period of time during which the individual will
be obligated to pay a portion of the individual’s future income, except
that—
(A)
except as provided in subparagraph (B), such period may not exceed 360 months; and
(B)
such contract may provide that such period may be extended by the number of years during which the
individual’s income is below the exemption amount specified in the
agreement under paragraph (1).
(5)
Early termination
An income share agreement shall specify the terms and conditions by which the individual may
extinguish the individual’s obligations under the contract before the end
of the payment period specified in the agreement, based on the remaining
term of such period.
(c)
Required disclosures
An income share agreement does not comply with the requirements of this section unless the
individual who is committing to pay future income is provided, before
entry into such agreement, a disclosure document that clearly and simply
discloses that—
(1)
the agreement is not a debt instrument, and that the amount the individual will be required to pay
under the agreement—
(A)
may be more or less than the amount provided to the individual; and
(B)
will vary in proportion to the individual’s future income;
(2)
the obligations of the individual under the agreement are not dischargeable under bankruptcy law;
(3)
whether the obligations of the individual under the agreement may be extinguished by accelerating
payments, and, if so, under what terms;
(4)
the duration of the individual’s obligations under the agreement (absent such accelerating
payments), including any circumstances under which the contract would be
extended;
(5)
the percentage of income the individual is committing to pay and the amount of income that is
exempt from the calculation of the individual’s obligation; and
(6)
the definition of income to be used for purposes of calculating the individual’s obligation.
(d)
Noninterference
An income share agreement shall not be construed to give the contract holder any rights over an
individual’s actions—it simply represents an obligation by the individual
to pay the specific percentage of future income.
103.
Definitions
As used in this title:
(1)
State
The term
State
includes, in addition to the several States of the Union, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the
government of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the
Pacific Islands.
(2)
State law
The term
State law
means any law, decision, rule, regulation, or other action having the effect of a law of any State
or any political subdivision of a State, or any agency or instrumentality
of a State or political subdivision of a State, except that a law of the
United States applicable only to the District of Columbia shall be treated
as a State law (rather than a law of the United States).
104.
Preemption of State Law with respect to usury
Income share agreements shall not be subject to State usury laws.
II
Tax Treatment of Income Share Agreements
201.
Tax treatment of income share agreements
(a)
Exclusion from gross income of income share agreement proceeds
Payments made under an income share agreement to or on behalf of the individual who commits to pay
a specified percentage of such individual’s future income to another
person under such agreement shall not be includible in the gross income of
such individual for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(b)
Treatment of payments of future income
Payments of future income received by another person under an income share agreement shall be
treated for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986—
(1)
first, with respect to so much of such payments as does not exceed the amount of the payments to
which subsection (a) applies with respect to such agreement, as a
repayment of investment in the contract which reduces the holder’s basis
in such agreement, and
(2)
second, as interest which is includible in gross income.
(c)
Income share agreement
For purposes of this title, the term
income share agreement
has the meaning given such term under title I.
III
Qualified education loan
301.
Qualified education loan
(a)
In general
Paragraph (1) of
section 221(d)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the
end the following:
Such term includes any income share agreement (as defined in section 102 of the
Investing in Student Success Act of 2014
), except that payments made by the taxpayer
during the taxable year to meet an income share agreement obligation shall
not be taken into account under subsection (a)
.
(b)
Information reporting not required
Subsection (e) of section 6050S of such Code is amended by inserting
(without regard to the last sentence thereof)
after
section 221(d)(1)
.
IV
Federal Individual Assistance Treatment of Income Share Agreements
401.
Amounts received not treated as income in calculation of financial need under the Higher Education
Act of 1965
No portion of any amounts received by an individual for entering into an income share agreement (as
such term is defined in title I) shall be included as income or assets in
the computation of expected family contribution for any program funded in
whole or in part under the Higher Education Act of 1965.
V
Investment Company treatment
501.
Businesses making income share agreements excluded from investment company treatment
Section 3(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (
15 U.S.C. 80a–3(c)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (4), by inserting after
industrial banking,
the following:
income share agreements (as defined under section 102 of the
Investing in Student Success Act of 2014
),
; and
(2)
in paragraph (5), by inserting
, including income share agreements
after
services
each place such term appears.
