1.
Findings; sense of
Congress
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
On April 3, 2009,
the President of the Human Rights Council established the United Nations Fact
Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict with the directive
to investigate
all violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian
law that might have been committed at any time in the context of the military
operations that were conducted in Gaza during the period from 27 December 2008
and 18 January 2009, whether before, during or after
.
(2)
On September 29,
2009, the United Nations Human Rights Council presented a report on the United
Nations Fact Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict, a report most often referred
to as the
Goldstone Report
, that accused Israel of potential war
crimes under the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
(3)
On April 1, 2011,
Justice Richard Goldstone, the author of the Goldstone Report, wrote an op-ed
in the Washington Post about the Goldstone Report and stated that more
information is now available regarding the Gaza War of 2008–2009 and that,
If I had known then what I know now, the Goldstone Report would have
been a different document.
.
(4)
Justice Goldstone
reiterated the following well known fact:
That the crimes allegedly
committed by Hamas were intentional goes without saying—its rockets were
purposefully and indiscriminately aimed at civilian targets.
.
(5)
Evidence that was
made available following the Goldstone Report confirms that Israel as a matter
of policy did not intentionally target civilians.
(6)
Justice Goldstone
reiterated the well known fact that the United Nations Human Rights Council has
long held a bias against Israel.
(b)
Sense of
Congress
It is the sense of Congress that now that evidence is
available that undoubtedly nullifies the most controversial aspects of the
Goldstone Report, the United Nations should formally retract the Goldstone
Report.
2.
Withholding of
United States contributions to the United Nations
(a)
In
general
The Secretary of
State shall withhold United States contributions to the regularly assessed
biennial budget of the United Nations until such time as the United Nations
formally retracts the final report of the
United Nations Fact Finding
Mission on the Gaza Conflict
(commonly referred to as the
Goldstone Report
) that was presented to the United Nations Humans
Rights Council during its 12th Session, in Geneva, on September 29, 2009. The
withheld contributions shall be returned to the general fund of the Treasury to
be used for debt reduction purposes.
(b)
Definition
In this section, the term
formally
retracts
means a resolution adopted by the United Nations stating that
insufficient information relating to the subject matter of the report referred
to in subsection (a) was available before the release of such report and such
report is annulled.
