1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Reliable Home Heating Act
.
2.
Authority to extend emergency declarations for purposes of temporarily exempting motor carriers
providing emergency relief from certain safety regulations
(a)
Defined term
In this Act, the term
residential heating fuel
includes—
(1)
heating oil;
(2)
natural gas; and
(3)
propane.
(b)
Authorization
If the Governor of a State declares a state of emergency caused by a shortage of residential
heating fuel and, at the conclusion of the initial
30-day emergency period (or a second 30-day emergency period authorized
under this subsection), the Governor determines that the emergency
shortage has not ended, any extension
of such state of emergency by the Governor, up to 2 additional 30-day
periods,
shall be recognized by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration as
a period during which parts 390 through 399 of chapter III of title 49,
Code of Federal Regulations, shall not apply to any motor carrier or
driver operating a commercial motor vehicle to provide residential heating
fuel in
the geographic area so designated as under a state of emergency.
(c)
Rulemaking
The Secretary of Transportation shall amend
section 390.23(a)(1)(ii)
of title 49, Code of Federal
Regulations, to conform to the provision set forth in subsection (b).
(d)
Savings provision
Nothing in this section may be construed to modify the authority granted to the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration’s Field Administrator under section
390.23(a) of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, to offer temporary
exemptions from parts 390 through 399 of such title.
3.
Energy Information Administration notification requirement
The Administrator of the Energy Information Administration, using data compiled from the
Administration’s Weekly Petroleum Status Reports, shall notify the
Governor of each State in a Petroleum Administration for Defense District
if the inventory of residential heating fuel within such district has been
below the most recent 5-year average for more than 3 consecutive weeks.
4.
Propane and home heating fuel emergency transportation
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a covered emergency exemption issued by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall remain in effect until May 31,
2014, unless the Secretary of Transportation, after consultation with the
Governors of affected States, determines that the emergency for which the
exemption was provided ends before that date.
(b)
Covered emergency exemption defined
In this section, the term
covered emergency exemption
means an exemption issued under
section 390.23
of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, or
extended under section 390.25 of such title that—
(1)
was issued or extended during the period beginning on February 5, 2014, and ending on the date of
enactment of this Act; and
(2)
provided regulatory relief for commercial motor vehicle operations providing direct assistance
supporting the delivery of propane and home heating fuels.
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in subsection (a) may be construed to prohibit the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration from issuing or extending a covered emergency exemption
beyond May 31, 2014, under other Federal law.
