1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preserving Religious Freedom and a Woman’s Access to Contraception Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
Instead of restricting Americans’ religious freedoms, Congress should preserve a woman’s ability to
make contraceptive decisions for herself.
(2)
The freedom of religion is the first freedom listed in the First Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States, and Congress has a strong interest in protecting the
free
exercise of religion for Americans of all faiths.
(3)
The Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 was signed by President Clinton on November 16, 1993,
after
passing the House of Representatives unanimously and passing the Senate
with the
votes of 97 Senators, including 16 currently serving Senators and the
Vice President.
(4)
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 provides important protections against discrimination on
the
basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
(5)
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and amendments made by that Act establish
comprehensive protections to
ensure that any medications used by or prescribed for an individual are
not
disclosed to an employer in its capacity as an employer.
(6)
The Food and Drug Administration has found a number of contraceptives to be proven safe and
effective at preventing pregnancies as well as in managing certain medical
conditions.
(7)
There are 5 programs, including the Medicaid program, carried out by the Department of Health and
Human Services that provide
access to contraception for low-income women.
(8)
Federal and State government spending for contraceptive services totaled $2,370,000,000 in fiscal
year 2010
and
the Medicaid program financed 75 percent of government spending for family
planning.
(9)
More than 19,000,000 women were eligible for government-supported contraceptive services in
2010.
(10)
Even before Obamacare mandated that employers fully subsidize employees' contraception, women had
wide access to Food and Drug
Administration-approved
contraception and such contraception was covered by insurance at over 85
percent of large businesses.
(11)
Now, Obamacare’s various requirements cause an unprecedented intrusion of government mandates into
Americans’ personal health care decisions, including unprecedented Federal
mandates that employers become involved in those decisions, and the
individual mandate, which requires individuals to purchase health
insurance
or pay a penalty.
(12)
Obamacare has created an enormous disruption in the personal health insurance options of millions
of Americans whose health insurance plans were cancelled or whose
preferred doctors were not included in their new health insurance plan
networks.
(13)
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that Obamacare could reduce employment by the equivalent
of 2,000,000 jobs over the next 10 years.
(14)
One of Obamacare’s mandates places 2,600,000 Americans, nearly two-thirds of them women, at risk of
having their hours and wages reduced, according to the Hoover Institution.
(15)
Obamacare’s cuts to the Medicare Advantage program and other regulatory actions could reduce the
average
benefit for women who rely on the program by $1,538 per year, or 13
percent.
(16)
Obamacare’s payroll tax increase creates an inequitable tax penalty for married working women.
(17)
Obamacare places limitations on health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts, and other
consumer-directed health savings vehicles, which help approximately
17,400,000 Americans to save for their own health expenses, including
contraceptives.
(18)
The current Administration has granted discretionary compliance waivers from Obamacare to a variety
of for-profit businesses, unions, and other organizations.
(19)
To date, the Department of Health and Human Services has granted more than 1,000 individual waiver
requests for employers and insurers,
excusing the employers and insurers from compliance with various aspects
of the law.
3.
Sense of the Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that the Food and Drug Administration should study whether
contraceptives that are available with a prescription, on the date of
enactment of this Act, would be safe and
effective for adults if available without a prescription.
4.
Employee protection
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an employer who is engaged in interstate commerce may
not prohibit an employee from
purchasing, pursuant to State prescribing and
dispensing laws, a drug or medical device, including a contraceptive, that
is regulated by
the Food and Drug Administration.
5.
Empowering employees to make health choices
(a)
No limitations based on whether a drug is prescribed
Section 9003 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
Public Law 111–148
), and the
amendments made by such section, are repealed, and the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 shall be applied as if such section, and amendments, had
never been enacted.
(b)
No limitations on health FSAs
Sections 9005 and 10902 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
Public Law 111–148
) and
section 1403 of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010
(
Public Law 111–152
), and the amendments made by such sections, are
repealed, and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be applied as if
such section, and amendments, had never been enacted.
