1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fernley Economic Self-Determination Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
City
The term
City
means the City of Fernley, Nevada.
(2)
Federal land
The term
Federal land
means the approximately 9,407 acres of land located in the City of Fernley, Nevada, that is
identified by the Secretary and the City for conveyance under this Act.
(3)
Map
The term
map
means the map entitled
Proposed Fernley, Nevada, Land Sales
and dated January 25, 2013.
3.
Conveyance of certain Federal land to City of Fernley, Nevada
(a)
Conveyance authorized
Subject to valid existing rights and not later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary
of the Interior receives an offer from the City to purchase the Federal
land depicted on the map, the Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Land
Management and the Bureau of Reclamation, shall convey, notwithstanding
the land use planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1712
, 1713), to the City
in exchange for consideration in an amount equal to the fair market value
of the Federal land, all right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to such Federal land.
(b)
Appraisal To determine fair market value
The Secretary shall determine the fair market value of the Federal land to be conveyed—
(1)
in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
); and
(2)
based on an appraisal that is conducted in accordance with nationally recognized appraisal
standards, including—
(A)
the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition; and
(B)
the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(c)
Availability of map
The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(d)
Reservation of easements and rights-of-Way
The City and the Bureau of Reclamation may retain easements or rights-of-way on the Federal land to
be conveyed, including easements or rights-of-way the Bureau of
Reclamation determines are necessary to carry out—
(1)
the operation and maintenance of the Truckee Canal; or
(2)
the Newlands Project.
(e)
Costs
The City shall, at closing for the conveyance authorized under subsection (a), pay or reimburse the
Secretary, as appropriate, for the reasonable transaction and
administrative personnel costs associated with the conveyance authorized
under such subsection, including the costs of appraisal, title searches,
maps, and boundary and cadastral surveys.
(f)
Conveyance not a major federal action
A conveyance or a combination of conveyances made under this section shall not be considered a
major Federal action for purposes of section 102(2) of the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4332(2)
).
4.
Release of United States
Upon making the conveyance under section 3, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United
States is released from any and all liabilities or claims of any kind or
nature arising from the presence, release, or threat of release of any
hazardous substance, pollutant, contaminant, petroleum product (or
derivative of a petroleum product of any kind), solid waste, mine
materials or mining related features (including tailings, overburden,
waste rock, mill remnants, pits, or other hazards resulting from the
presence of mining related features) on the Federal land in existence on
or before the date of the conveyance.
5.
Withdrawal
Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land to be conveyed under section 3 of this Act shall
be withdrawn from all forms of—
(1)
entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws;
(2)
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
(3)
disposition under the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
