1.
Short
title
This Act may be cited as
the
Egyptian Military Coup Act of
2013
.
2.
Foreign
assistance restrictions in response to Egyptian military coup d'état
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following
findings:
(1)
On June 30, 2012,
Mohamed Morsi was elected President of Egypt in elections that were certified
as free and fair by the Egyptian Presidential Election Commission and the
United Nations.
(2)
On July 3, 2013,
the military of Egypt removed the democratically elected President of Egypt,
arrested his supporters, and suspended the Constitution of Egypt. These actions
fit the definition of a military coup d'état.
(3)
Pursuant to
section 7008 of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs Act, 2012 (division I of
Public Law 112–74
; 125 Stat. 1195), the
United States is legally prohibited from providing foreign assistance to any
country whose duly elected head of government is deposed by a military coup
d'état, or removed in such a way that the military plays a decisive
role.
(4)
The United States
has suspended aid to countries that have undergone military coups d'état in the
past, including the Ivory Coast, the Central African Republic, Thailand, Mali,
Fiji, and Honduras.
(b)
Foreign
assistance to the Government of Egypt
(1)
Restrictions on
assistance under section 7008
In accordance with section 7008 of the
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Act, 2012
(division I of
Public Law 112–74
; 125 Stat. 1195), the United States
Government, including the Department of State, shall refrain from providing to
the Government of Egypt the assistance restricted under such section.
(2)
Additional
restrictions
In addition to the restrictions referred to in
paragraph (1), the following restrictions shall be in effect with respect to
United States assistance to the Government of Egypt:
(A)
Deliveries of
defense articles currently slated for transfer to Egyptian Ministry of Defense
(MOD) and Ministry of Interior (MOI) shall be suspended until the President
certifies to Congress that democratic national elections have taken place in
Egypt followed by a peaceful transfer of power.
(B)
Provision of
defense services to Egyptian MOD and MOI shall be halted immediately until the
President certifies to Congress that democratic national elections have taken
place in Egypt followed by a peaceful transfer of power.
(C)
Processing of
draft Letters of Offer and Acceptance (LOAs) for future arms sales to Egyptian
MOD and MOI entities shall be halted until the President certifies to Congress
that democratic national elections have taken place in Egypt followed by a
peaceful transfer of power.
(D)
All costs
associated with the delays in deliveries and provision of services required
under subparagraphs (A) through (C) shall be borne by the Government of
Egypt.
