1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Health Care Access Received Closer to Home Act of 2014
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
veterans who are authorized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to receive health care in the
community must not lose the high quality, safety, care coordination, and
other veteran-centric elements that the health care system of the
Department of Veterans Affairs provides;
(2)
many veterans receive health care from both the Department and community providers but the lack of
care coordination among the Department and community providers when
veterans receive purchased care places veterans at risk for poor health
outcomes and results in inefficient use of finite health care resources;
(3)
veteran-centric care coordination is associated with improved patient outcomes, as Department and
non-Department health care teams coordinate and collaborate to provide the
best care for veterans; and
(4)
if the Secretary purchases care for veterans from the private sector, such care must be secured in
a cost-effective manner, in a way that complements the larger health care
system of the Department by using industry standards for care and costs.
3.
Reauthorization and modification of pilot program of enhanced contract care authority for health
care
needs of veterans
Section 403 of the Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 2008 (Public Law
110–387;
38 U.S.C. 1703
note) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in paragraph (2), by striking
120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act
and inserting
90 days after the date of the enactment of the
Veterans Health Care Access Received Closer to Home Act of 2014
; and
(B)
by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
(4)
Program locations
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program at locations in the following Veterans Integrated
Service
Networks (and such other locations as the Secretary considers
appropriate):
(A)
Veterans Integrated Service Network 1.
(B)
Veterans Integrated Service Network 6.
(C)
Veterans Integrated Service Network 15.
(D)
Veterans Integrated Service Network 18.
(E)
Veterans Integrated Service Network 19.
;
(2)
by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
(b)
Covered veterans
For purposes of the pilot program under this section, a covered veteran is any rural or highly
rural veteran who—
(1)
is—
(A)
enrolled in the system of patient enrollment established under
section 1705(a)
of title 38, United
States Code;
(B)
eligible for health care under the laws administered by the Secretary and enrolls in such system of
patient enrollment not later than 30 days after the veteran begins
receiving covered health services under the pilot program; or
(C)
eligible for health care under section 1710(e)(3) of such title; and
(2)
resides in a location that is—
(A)
more than 60 minutes driving distance from the nearest Department health care facility providing
primary care services, if the veteran is seeking such services;
(B)
more than 120 minutes driving distance from the nearest Department health care facility providing
acute hospital care, if the veteran is seeking such care; or
(C)
more than 240 minutes driving distance from the nearest Department health care facility providing
tertiary care, if the veteran is seeking such care.
;
(3)
by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (j);
(4)
by inserting after subsection (g) the following new subsections:
(h)
Appointments
In carrying out the pilot program under this section, the Secretary shall ensure that medical
appointments for veterans occur during the 30-day period beginning on the
date that is 15 days after the date on which the appointment is requested.
(i)
Outreach
The Secretary shall ensure that a veteran eligible for the pilot program under this section is
informed of such program.
; and
(5)
in paragraph (2)(B) of subsection (j), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this section, by
striking the semicolon at the end and inserting
; and
.
