1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Regulatory Transparency, Patient Access, and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2014
.
2.
Scheduling of substances included in new FDA-approved drugs
Section 201 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 811
) is amended by inserting after
subsection (h) the following:
(i)
Within 45 days of receiving a recommendation from the Secretary to add a drug or substance that has
never been marketed in the United States to a schedule under this title,
the Attorney General shall, without regard to the findings required by
subsection (a) of this section or section 202(b), issue an interim final
rule, under the exception for good cause described in subparagraph (B) of
section 553(b)
of title 5, United States Code, placing the drug or
substance into the schedule recommended by the Secretary. The interim
final rule shall be made immediately effective under section 553(d)(3) of
title 5, United States Code.
.
3.
Enhancing new drug development
Section 302 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 822
) is amended by inserting after
subsection (g) the following:
(h)
(1)
A person who submits an application for registration to manufacture or distribute a controlled
substance in accordance with this section may indicate on the registration
application that the substance will be used only in connection with
clinical trials of a drug in accordance with section 505(i) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(2)
When an application for registration to manufacture or distribute a controlled substance includes
an indication that the controlled substance will be used only in
connection with clinical trials of a drug in accordance with section
505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Attorney General
shall—
(A)
make a final decision on the application for registration within 180 days; or
(B)
provide notice to the applicant in writing of—
(i)
the outstanding issues that must be resolved in order to reach a final decision on the application;
and
(ii)
the estimated date on which a final decision on the application will be made.
.
4.
Registration process under Controlled Substances Act
(a)
Definitions
(1)
Factors as may be relevant to and consistent with the public health and safety
Section 303 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 823
) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
(i)
In this section, the phrase
factors as may be relevant to and consistent with the public health and safety
means factors that are relevant to and consistent with the findings contained in section 101.
.
(2)
Imminent danger to the public health or safety
Section 304(d) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 824(d)
) is amended—
(A)
by striking
(d) The Attorney General
and inserting
(d)(1) The Attorney General
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
In this subsection, the phrase
imminent danger to the public health or safety
means that, in the absence of an immediate suspension order, controlled substances will continue
to be distributed or dispensed by a registrant who knows or should know
through fulfilling the obligations of the registrant under this Act, or
has reason to
believe that—
(A)
the dispensing is outside the usual course of professional practice;
(B)
the distribution or dispensing poses a present or foreseeable risk of adverse health consequences
or death due to the abuse or misuse of the controlled substances; or
(C)
the controlled substances will continue to be diverted outside of legitimate distribution channels.
.
(b)
Opportunity To submit corrective action plan prior to revocation or suspension
Subsection (c) of section 304 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 824
) is amended—
(1)
by striking the last two sentences;
(2)
by striking
(c) Before
and inserting
(c)(1) Before
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
An order to show cause under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
contain a statement of the basis for the denial, revocation, or suspension, including specific
citations to any laws or regulations alleged to be violated by the
applicant or registrant;
(B)
direct the applicant or registrant to appear before the Attorney General at a time and place stated
in the order, but not less than 30 days after the date of receipt of
the order; and
(C)
notify the applicant or registrant of the opportunity to submit a corrective action plan on or
before the date of appearance.
(3)
Upon review of any corrective action plan submitted by an applicant or registrant pursuant to
paragraph (2), the Attorney General shall determine whether denial,
revocation or suspension proceedings should be discontinued, or deferred
for the purposes of modification, amendment, or clarification to such
plan.
(4)
Proceedings to deny, revoke, or suspend shall be conducted pursuant to this section in accordance
with subchapter II of
chapter 5
of title 5, United States Code. Such
proceedings shall be
independent of, and not in lieu of, criminal prosecutions or other
proceedings under this title or any other law of the United States.
(5)
The requirements of this subsection shall not apply to the issuance of an immediate suspension
order under subsection (d).
.
5.
Report to Congress on effects of law enforcement activities on patient access to medications
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs and the
Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and in
consultation with the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration
and the Director of National Drug Control Policy, shall submit a report to
the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, the
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions of the Senate identifying—
(1)
obstacles to legitimate patient access to controlled substances;
(2)
issues with diversion of controlled substances; and
(3)
how collaboration between Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies and the
pharmaceutical industry can benefit patients and prevent diversion and
abuse of controlled substances.
(b)
Consultation
The report under subsection (a) shall incorporate feedback and recommendations from the following:
(1)
Patient groups.
(2)
Pharmacies.
(3)
Drug manufacturers.
(4)
Common or contract carriers and warehousemen.
(5)
Hospitals, physicians, and other health care providers.
(6)
State attorneys general.
(7)
Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies.
(8)
Health insurance providers and entities that provide pharmacy benefit management services on behalf
of a health insurance provider.
(9)
Wholesale drug distributors.
