118 HCON 29 IH: Condemning the Russian Federation’s kidnapping of Ukrainian children.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 29
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 28, 2023
Mr. Bacon
(for himself,
Ms. Mace
,
Mr. Morelle
,
Mr. Panetta
,
Mr. Lamborn
,
Mr. LaMalfa
,
Mr. Raskin
,
Mr. Doggett
, and
Mr. Fitzpatrick
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Condemning the Russian Federation’s kidnapping of Ukrainian children.
Whereas, on February 24, 2022, the Russian Federation invaded the sovereign State of Ukraine in violation of international law;
Whereas Russian troops have since committed horrendous atrocities and human rights violations;
Whereas, as of March 2023, the Russian Government has kidnapped and removed tens of thousands of innocent children from their homes in Ukraine;
Whereas the Russian Government continues to falsely claim that the parents and families of these exploited children are dead;
Whereas the Russian Government is actively transporting these kidnapped children to
reeducation camps
and remote areas like Murmansk, Kamchatka, and the North Korean border where they have created dozens of new
child custody centers
;
Whereas, rather than a humanitarian project as Russia claims, these reeducation camps are designed to brainwash the young and malleable minds of children into supporting the horrors being committed in Ukraine and into supporting the empire of evil President Vladimir Putin seeks to construct by any means necessary;
Whereas this practice is in direct contradiction to any standard of reasonableness and civility;
Whereas this practice was employed by dictator Adolf Hitler;
Whereas this practice was employed by dictator Joseph Stalin;
Whereas this practice was employed by dictator Mao Zedong;
Whereas this practice was employed by dictator Pol Pot;
Whereas this practice was employed by dictator Augusto Pinochet;
Whereas this practice is historically associated with sadistic tyrants and dictators who pose a threat to humanity, world peace, prosperity, and human rights; and
Whereas children everywhere should be protected against all forms of neglect, cruelty, and exploitation: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
condemns in the strongest possible terms the Russian Federation’s abduction of innocent children from their families in Ukraine and relocation to reeducation camps where they are indoctrinated, abused, and exploited;
(2)
rebukes every other nation that provides aid and support to the Russian Federation’s kidnapping enterprise;
(3)
condemns forced adoption of Ukrainian children by Russian citizens contrary to international intercountry adoption norms and the Hague Convention governing intercountry adoption; and
(4)
implores the Russian Federation to work with international human rights and children welfare organizations to ensure the return of Ukrainian children to their home country at the earliest available opportunity.
