118 HCON 90 IH: Condemning the Biden administration for its ban on the issuance of liquefied natural gas export permits.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-02-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. CON. RES. 90
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 6, 2024
Mr. Williams of New York
(for himself,
Mr. Donalds
,
Mr. Bean of Florida
,
Ms. Granger
,
Mr. Scott Franklin of Florida
,
Mr. Ellzey
,
Ms. Boebert
,
Mr. Burgess
,
Mr. Van Orden
,
Mr. Weber of Texas
, and
Ms. De La Cruz
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Condemning the Biden administration for its ban on the issuance of liquefied natural gas export permits.
Whereas, on January 26, 2024, the Biden administration announced it is indefinitely pausing the issuance of permits for liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports to projects under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b
);
Whereas the administration’s indefinite pause on LNG export permitting, with no clear plans or timelines for reinstating the permitting process, is effectively a ban on the issuance of LNG export permits;
Whereas the administration’s ban on the issuance of LNG export permits will apply to United States partners across the globe, including critical allies in Europe;
Whereas, according to the Energy Information Administration, over 50 percent of LNG exported from the United States is exported to the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, and the Netherlands, and that the new export projects to these countries will be banned by the administration’s action;
Whereas the export of LNG is a critical component of United States partnerships and projection of influence in Europe;
Whereas preventing Russian domination of the European continent is a key strategic goal of the United States;
Whereas the Russian Federation has used natural gas exports to gain leverage over United States European allies, including through constructing major pipeline networks to Europe, such as Nord Stream and Yamal-Europe;
Whereas a ban on the issuance of permits for United States LNG exports to Europe would disrupt United States economic and security partnerships with European allies;
Whereas European dependency on Russian natural gas is only encouraged by the administration’s ban on LNG export permitting;
Whereas the export of LNG is a significant part of the United States energy industry, creating quality jobs for working class Americans;
Whereas the extraction, processing, and shipping of LNG is a critical part of local economies across the United States;
Whereas banning LNG export permitting under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b
) would negatively impact the United States economy;
Whereas the adoption of LNG in the United States energy sector has been the leading factor in the United States reducing its carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent between 2005 and 2021;
Whereas countries that the United States exports LNG to derive substantial portions of their energy from sources that emit more carbon dioxide than the burning of LNG;
Whereas United States exports of LNG to other countries offer a low emission energy source for partners across the globe; and
Whereas, according to researchers from the National Energy Technology Laboratory, Russian-produced natural gas shipped by pipeline to Europe has approximately 41 percent higher life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions than United States LNG shipped to the same destination: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
exports of liquefied natural gas are critical to United States foreign policy, economic, and environmental goals;
(2)
the Biden administration’s politicization of energy policy sows further distrust in the standing of the United States in the world;
(3)
Congress condemns the administration’s current ban on the issuance of liquefied natural gas export permits; and
(4)
Congress urges the administration to reverse its decision and to return to permitting liquefied natural gas export projects for the sake of national security and economic prosperity.
