118 HCON 17 IH: Expressing the sense of Congress that the Federal Government should not impose any restrictions on the export of crude oil or other petroleum products.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 17
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 17, 2023
Mr. Guthrie
submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of Congress that the Federal Government should not impose any restrictions on the export of crude oil or other petroleum products.
Whereas the United States has enjoyed a renaissance in energy production, with the expansion of domestic crude oil and other petroleum product production contributing to enhanced energy security and significant economic benefits to the national economy;
Whereas, in 2015, Congress recognized the need to adapt to changing crude oil market conditions and repealed all restrictions on the export of crude oil on a bipartisan basis;
Whereas lifting the restrictions on crude oil exports encouraged additional domestic energy production, created American jobs and economic development, and allowed the United States to emerge as the leading oil producer in the world;
Whereas, in 2019, the United States became a net exporter of petroleum products for the first time since 1952, and the reliance of the United States on foreign imports of petroleum products has declined to historic lows; and
Whereas free trade, open markets, and competition have contributed to the rise of the United States as a global energy superpower: Now, therefore, be it
That it is the sense of Congress that the Federal Government should not impose—
(1)
overly restrictive regulations on the exploration, production, or marketing of energy resources; or
(2)
any restrictions on the export of crude oil or other petroleum products under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (
42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.
).
