118 HCON 18 IH: Establishing deadlines for the Joint Committee of Congress on the Library to approve or deny the statue of the Reverend William Franklin “Billy” Graham, Jr., for placement in the National Statuary Hall.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 18
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 17, 2023
Mr. McHenry
(for himself,
Mr. Rouzer
,
Ms. Foxx
,
Mr. Edwards
,
Mr. Bishop of North Carolina
,
Mr. Hudson
,
Mr. Murphy
, and
Mr. Davis of North Carolina
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Establishing deadlines for the Joint Committee of Congress on the Library to approve or deny the statue of the Reverend William Franklin
Billy
Graham, Jr., for placement in the National Statuary Hall.
1.
Deadlines for approval or denial by Joint Committee of Congress on the Library
The Joint Committee of Congress on the Library shall—
(1)
approve or deny the full-sized clay model and pedestal design of a statue of the Reverend William Franklin
Billy
Graham, Jr., not later than 30 days after the date on which the State of North Carolina submits to the Architect of the Capitol—
(A)
photographs of the model from all 4 sides;
(B)
the dimensions of the statue and pedestal;
(C)
engineering drawings of the pedestal;
(D)
the anticipated weight of the completed statue and pedestal; and
(E)
the text of any proposed inscription;
(2)
approve or deny the completed statue of the Reverend William Franklin
Billy
Graham, Jr., not later than 30 days after the date on which the State of North Carolina submits to the Architect of the Capitol—
(A)
photographs of the completed statue and pedestal from all 4 sides;
(B)
the dimensions of the statue and pedestal;
(C)
the final weight of the statue and pedestal; and
(D)
the text of any inscription; and
(3)
if the Committee approves the statue of the Reverend William Franklin
Billy
Graham, Jr., under paragraph (2), not later than 30 days after the date of the approval, determine a permanent public location in the Capitol for the statue.
