118 HCON 71 IH: Expressing the sense of Congress to encourage full participation of Taiwan in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-10-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 71
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 3, 2023
Mr. Gooden of Texas
(for himself,
Mr. Johnson of Ohio
,
Mr. Tiffany
,
Mr. Santos
,
Mr. Owens
,
Mr. Yakym
,
Mr. Ogles
,
Mr. Weber of Texas
,
Mr. Gimenez
,
Mr. Self
,
Mr. Fry
,
Mr. Fallon
,
Mr. Jackson of Texas
,
Ms. Salazar
, and
Mr. Biggs
) submitted the following concurrent resolution
October 25, 2023
Referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of Congress to encourage full participation of Taiwan in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
Whereas the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) was established as a regional economic forum to create prosperity for the people of the Asia-Pacific region by promoting balanced, innovative, and secure growth, and by accelerating regional economic integration;
Whereas APEC serves as a platform for the United States to engage its regional partners in the Asia-Pacific region on trade and investment issues to address business concerns, open markets, promote high standards, and achieve free, fair, and reciprocal trade in the region;
Whereas the APEC regional forum meets annually to afford leaders of APEC’s 21 members the opportunity to discuss mutual interests in economic security and expanded commerce;
Whereas Taiwan is a full member in good standing of the APEC regional forum;
Whereas bilateral trade and direct investment between the United States and Taiwan have sustainably increased in recent years;
Whereas Taiwan is the eighth-largest trading partner of the United States, a vibrant multiparty democracy, and a defender of individual liberty and human rights;
Whereas United States businesses in the Asia-Pacific region face obstacles to doing business in the region, in part due to a rise in discriminatory barriers to trade as well as an increase in hostile and unwarranted measures from the Chinese Communist Party;
Whereas it is demonstrably in the national security interests of the United States for its leaders to engage in a peaceful dialogue with Taiwan on the basis of mutual respect;
Whereas the annual APEC leaders’ summit of 21 member economies is scheduled for November 2023 in San Francisco, California;
Whereas
Public Law 103–416
states that the President of Taiwan shall be welcome in the United States at any time to discuss trade, business, or other important bilateral issues;
Whereas
Public Law 115–135
makes it the policy of the United States to encourage high-level visits between senior American and Taiwanese officials, including our respective Presidents and to demonstrate appropriate respect for the dignity of such officials visiting the United States; and
Whereas United States interests are best served by policies that treat Taiwan’s elected leaders with respect and dignity: Now, therefore, be it
That it is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the President of Taiwan shall be formally and respectfully invited and allowed to attend all future Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) leaders’ events held within the United States and its territories on an equal footing with leaders of other APEC member states; and
(2)
the President of Taiwan shall be formally and respectfully invited and allowed to attend the APEC leaders’ summit this year in San Francisco, California, on an equal footing with leaders of other APEC member states.
