Section 1. Policy.

  welcomes and supports foreign investment, consistent with the protection of national security.   commitment to open investment is a cornerstone of our economic policy and provides   with substantial economic benefits, including "the promotion of economic growth, productivity, competitiveness, and job creation, thereby enhancing national security," as the   recognized in section 1702(b)(1) of   of   (FIRRMA) (Subtitle A of Title XVII of Public Law 115-232). Some investments in   by foreign persons, however, present risks to the national security of  , and it is for this reason that   maintains a robust foreign investment review process focused on identifying and addressing such risks.

It is important to ensure that the foreign investment review process remains responsive to an evolving national security landscape and the nature of the investments that pose related risks to national security, as the   recognized in  ) of  . One factor for   in   (Committee) to consider, as the   highlighted in section 1702(c)(1) of FIRRMA, is that national security risks may arise from foreign investments involving "a country of special concern that has a demonstrated or declared strategic goal of acquiring a type of critical technology or critical infrastructure that would affect   leadership in areas related to national security." Along these lines, I previously underscored in Executive Order   (Protecting  ' Sensitive Data From Foreign Adversaries), and emphasize in this order the risks presented by foreign adversaries' access to data of   persons. With respect to investments directly or indirectly involving foreign adversaries or other countries of special concern, what may otherwise appear to be an economic transaction undertaken for commercial purposes may actually present an unacceptable risk to   national security due to the legal environment, intentions, or capabilities of the foreign person, including foreign governments, involved in the transaction. It is the policy of   to continue to respond to these risks as they evolve, including through a robust review of foreign investments in   businesses.

In light of these risks, this order provides direction to the   to ensure that, in reviewing transactions within its jurisdiction (covered transactions), the  's review remains responsive to evolving national security risks, including by elaborating and expanding on the factors identified in subsections (f)(1)-(10) of section 721. This order shall be implemented consistent with the  's statutory mandate to determine the effects of each covered transaction reviewed by    .

 . 2. Elaboration on Existing Statutory Factors.

(a) In considering the factors described in subsection (f)(3) of section 721, the   shall, taking into account the requirements of national security, consider the following, as appropriate:

(i) It is important to national security that the   continues to assess the effect of foreign investment on domestic capacity to meet national security requirements, including those requirements that fall outside of the defense industrial base. In particular, the resilience of certain critical   supply chains may have national security implications.   recognizes the importance of cooperating with its allies and partners to secure supply chains; however, certain foreign investment may undermine supply chain resilience efforts and therefore national security by making   vulnerable to future supply disruptions. These vulnerabilities may occur if an investment shifts ownership, rights, or control with respect to certain manufacturing capabilities, services, critical mineral resources, or technologies that are fundamental to national security—including because they are critical to   supply chain resilience—to a foreign person who might take actions that threaten to impair the national security of   as a result of the transaction, or to other foreign persons, including foreign governments, to whom the foreign person has commercial, investment, non-economic, or other ties (relevant third-party ties) that might cause the transaction to pose a threat to national security.

(ii) The   shall consider, as appropriate, the covered transaction's effect on supply chain resilience and security, both within and outside of the defense industrial base, in manufacturing capabilities, services, critical mineral resources, or technologies that are fundamental to national security, including: microelectronics, artificial intelligence, biotechnology and biomanufacturing, quantum computing, advanced clean energy (such as battery storage and hydrogen), climate adaptation technologies, critical materials (such as lithium and rare earth elements), elements of the agriculture industrial base that have implications for food security, and any other sectors identified in section 3(b) or section 4(a) of Executive Order   of   ( 's  ).

(A) The   shall consider, as appropriate, the degree of involvement in   supply chain by a foreign person who is a party to the covered transaction and who might take actions that threaten to impair the national security of   as a result of the transaction, or who might have relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to pose such a threat.

(B) The   shall consider, as appropriate,   capability with respect to manufacturing capabilities, services, critical mineral resources, or technologies, including those described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section; the degree of diversification through alternative suppliers across the supply chain, including suppliers located in allied or partner economies; whether   business that is party to the covered transaction supplies, directly or indirectly,  , the energy sector industrial base, or the defense industrial base; and the concentration of ownership or control by the foreign person in a given supply chain, among other factors that the   determines to be appropriate in considering whether the covered transaction may undermine the resilience and security of supply chains critical to national security.

(b) In considering the factors described in subsection (f)(5) of section 721, the   shall, taking into account the requirements of national security, consider the following, as appropriate:

(i) Although foreign investments can in many circumstances help to foster domestic innovation, it is important to protect   technological leadership by addressing the risks posed by investments by foreign persons who might take actions

that threaten to impair the national security of   as a result of the transaction, and by addressing whether such persons have relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to pose such a threat.

(ii) The   shall consider, as appropriate, whether a covered transaction involves manufacturing capabilities, services, critical mineral resources, or technologies that are fundamental to   technological leadership and therefore national security, such as microelectronics, artificial intelligence, biotechnology and biomanufacturing, quantum computing, advanced clean energy, and climate adaptation technologies. The   shall also consider, as appropriate, relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to threaten to impair the national security of  .

(iii) The   shall consider, as appropriate, whether a covered transaction could reasonably result in future advancements and applications in technology that could undermine national security.

(iv)   ( ), in consultation with other members of the  , shall periodically publish a list of technology sectors, including those technologies listed in subsection (b)(ii) of this section, that it assesses are fundamental to   technological leadership in areas relevant to national security. OSTP shall, as appropriate, draw on the findings of other   efforts to identify technology sectors that are fundamental to   technological leadership. The   shall consider the list described in this subsection, as appropriate.

 . 3. Additional Factors to be  .

(a) In addition to the factors identified in subsections (f)(1)-(10) of section 721, the   shall consider, in reviewing the effects of a covered transaction on the national security of  , the following factors relating to aggregate industry investment trends that may have consequences for an individual covered transaction's impact on national security:

(i) Incremental investments over time in a sector or technology may cede, part-by-part, domestic development or control in that sector or technology and may give a foreign person who might take actions that threaten to impair the national security of   as a result of the transaction, or their relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to pose such a threat, control of or rights in   businesses in a manner that may result in national security risk. A series of acquisitions in the same, similar, or related   businesses involved in activities that are fundamental to national security or on terms that implicate national security may result in a particular covered transaction giving rise to a national security risk when considered in the context of transactions that preceded it. In aggregate, these transactions may facilitate harmful technology transfer in key industries or otherwise harm national security through the cumulative effect of these investments. As the   identified in section 1702(c)(2) of  , the   may consider "the cumulative control of, or pattern of recent transactions involving, any one type of critical infrastructure, energy asset, critical material, or critical technology by a foreign government or foreign person" in considering national security risks. Contextualizing the  's review of an individual transaction in light of the aggregate or series of related transactions could reveal national security risks arising from the covered transaction that were not otherwise apparent.

(ii) The   shall consider, as appropriate, as part of the  's review of a covered transaction, the risks arising from the covered transaction in the context of multiple acquisitions or investments in a single sector or in related manufacturing capabilities, services, critical mineral resources, or technologies, by any foreign person who might take actions that threaten to impair the national security of   as a result of the transaction, or involving relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to pose such a threat.

(iii) The   may request, as part of the  's review of a covered transaction, that     provide the   an analysis of the industry or industries in which the   business operates, and the cumulative control of, or pattern of recent transactions by, a foreign person, including, directly or indirectly, a foreign government, in that sector or industry.

(b) In addition to the factors identified in subsections (f)(1)-(10) of section 721, the   shall consider, in reviewing the effects of a covered transaction on the national security of  , the following factors relating to cybersecurity risks resulting from a covered transaction that threaten to impair national security:

(i) It is important for   to ensure that foreign investment in   businesses does not erode   cybersecurity. Investments by foreign persons with the capability and intent to conduct cyber intrusions or other malicious cyber-enabled activity—such as activity designed to affect the outcome of any election for  ,  , local, or territorial office; the operation of   critical infrastructure; or the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of   communications—may pose a risk to national security. The  , in  ) of FIRRMA, identified "exacerbating or creating new cybersecurity vulnerabilities" as a relevant consideration for the   when considering national security risks arising from a covered transaction. Review of foreign investment is an important tool as part of broader   efforts to ensure the cybersecurity of  .

(ii) The   shall consider, as appropriate, whether a covered transaction may provide a foreign person who might take actions that threaten to impair the national security of   as a result of the transaction, or their relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to pose such a threat, with direct or indirect access to capabilities or information databases and systems on which threat actors could engage in malicious cyber-enabled activities affecting the interests of   or   persons, including:

(A) activity designed to undermine the protection or integrity of data in storage or databases or systems housing sensitive data;

(B) activity designed to interfere with   elections,   critical infrastructure, the defense industrial base, or other cybersecurity national security priorities set forth in Executive Order   of   (Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity); and

(C) the sabotage of critical energy infrastructure, including smart grids.

(iii) The   shall also consider, as appropriate, the cybersecurity posture, practices, capabilities, and access of both the foreign person and   business that could allow a foreign person who might take actions that threaten to impair the national security of   as a result of the transaction, or their relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to pose such a threat, to manifest cyber intrusion and other malicious cyber-enabled activity within  .

(c) In addition to the factors identified in subsections (f)(1)-(10) of section 721, the   shall consider, in reviewing the effects of a covered transaction on the national security of  , the following factors relating to national security concerns surrounding sensitive data:

(i) Data is an increasingly powerful tool for the surveillance, tracing, tracking, and targeting of individuals or groups of individuals, with potential adverse impacts on national security. In section 1702(c)(5) of FIRRMA, the   recognized that the   may consider whether a covered transaction may "expose, either directly or indirectly, personally identifiable information, genetic information, or other sensitive data of   citizens to access by a foreign government or foreign person that may exploit that information in a manner that threatens national security." Moreover, advances in technology, combined with access to large data sets, increasingly enable the re identification or de anonymization of what once was unidentifiable data. Therefore, it is important for   to stay current with threats posed by advances in such technology, including by considering potential risks posed by foreign persons who might exploit access to certain data on   persons to target individuals or groups within   to the detriment of national security. Accordingly, the   shall consider whether foreign investments in   businesses that have access to or that store   persons' sensitive data, including health and biological data, involve a foreign person who might take actions that threaten to impair the national security of   as a result of the transaction, including whether the foreign person might have relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to pose such a threat.

(ii) The   shall consider, as appropriate, whether a covered transaction involves a   business that:

(A) has access to   persons' sensitive data, including   persons' health, digital identity, or other biological data and any data that could be identifiable or de anonymized, that could be exploited to distinguish or trace an individual's identity in a manner that threatens national security; or

(B) has access to data on sub-populations in   that could be used by a foreign person to target individuals or groups of individuals in   in a manner that threatens national security.

(iii) The   shall also consider, as appropriate, whether a covered transaction involves the transfer of   persons' sensitive data to a foreign person who might take actions that threaten to impair the national security of   as a result of the transaction, and whether the foreign person has relevant third-party ties that have sought to exploit such information or have the ability to exploit such information to the detriment of national security, including through the use of commercial or other means.

 . 4.  .

Consistent with the policy described in section 1 of this order, it is important for the  , on an ongoing basis, to continue to review its processes, practices, and regulations, and to continue to make any updates as needed and appropriate to ensure that the  's consideration of national security risks remains robust alongside changes to the national security landscape. Accordingly, the   shall regularly review its processes, practices, and regulations, and shall periodically provide to the Assistant to the President for   a report documenting the results of its review. The report shall also include any resulting policy recommendations that the   considers necessary to meet the evolving set of national security risks.

 . 5. Definitions.

For purposes of this order, terms shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in section 721 and regulations promulgated by the   under section 721.

 . 6.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, affect the requirements in section 721 relating to the scope of the  's jurisdiction.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
