Section 1

. (a) All transactions related to, provision of financing for, and other dealings in the following by a   person or within   are prohibited:

(i) new debt with a maturity of greater than   of  ,   (PdVSA);

(ii) new debt with a maturity of  , or new equity, of  , other than debt of PdVSA covered by subsection (a)(i) of this section;

(iii) bonds issued by   prior to the effective date of this order; or

(iv) dividend payments or other distributions of profits to   from any entity owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by  .

(b) The purchase, directly or indirectly, by a   person or within  , of securities from  , other than securities qualifying as new debt with a maturity of less than or equal to   as covered by subsections (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of this section, respectively, is prohibited.

(c) The prohibitions in subsections (a) and (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order.

 . 2

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited. (b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d) the term "Government of Venezuela" means  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including   and  , and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of,  .

 . 4

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions to other officers and executive departments and agencies of  . All agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 5

. For those persons whose property or interests in property are affected by this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.

 . 6

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 7

. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .
