Section 1

. Section 1(b) and (c) of Executive Order   are amended to read as follows:

"(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(i) of this section, any transaction entered into on or before 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on  , solely to divest, in whole or in part, from securities that any   person held as of 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on  , in a     military company as defined in section 4(a)(i) of this order, is permitted. Effective at 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on  , possession of any such securities by a   person is prohibited.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(ii) of this section, for a person determined to be a     military company pursuant to section 4(a)(ii) or (iii) of this order, any transaction entered into on or   from the date of such determination, solely to divest, in whole or in part, from securities that any   person held in such person, as of   from the date of such determination, is permitted. Effective at 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on   after the date of such determination, possession of any such securities by a   person is prohibited."

Sec. 2

. Subsections (a)(ii) and (iii) of section 4 of Executive Order   are amended to read as follows:

"(ii) any person that the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , publicly lists as a     military company meeting the criteria in section 1237(b)(4)(B) of Public Law 105-261, as amended by section 1233 of Public Law 106-398 and section 1222 of Public Law 108-375, and that operates directly or indirectly in   or any of its possessions, until such time as the Secretary of   removes such person from such list. This definition shall apply regardless of whether the Secretary of   must provide the report described in section 1237(b)(2) of Public Law 105-261, as amended by section 1233 of Public Law 106-398 and section 1222 of Public Law 108-375; or

(iii) any person that the Secretary of the   publicly lists as meeting the criteria described in section (a)(ii) of this section, or publicly lists as a subsidiary of a person already determined to be a     military company, until the Secretary of the   determines that such person no longer meets that criteria and removes such person from such list."

 . 3

. Section 4(e) of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows: "(e) the term "transaction" means the purchase for value, or sale, of any publicly traded security; and".

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
