Section 1

.

Establishment

. The Attorney General shall establish within   and Consumer Fraud (Task Force).

 . 2

.

Membership and Operation

. (a) The Task Force shall include the following members:

(i) the Deputy Attorney General, who shall serve as the  ;

(ii) the Associate Attorney General, who shall serve as the Vice Chair;

(iii) the Assistant Attorney General (Criminal Division);

(iv) the Assistant Attorney General (Civil Division);

(v) the Assistant Attorney General (Tax Division);

(vi) the Assistant Attorney General (Antitrust Division);

(vii) the Director of  ;

(viii) United States Attorneys designated by the Attorney General; and

(ix) such other officers or employees of   as the Attorney General may from time to time designate.

(b) The Deputy Attorney General shall convene and direct the work of   in fulfilling its functions under this order. The Deputy Attorney General may permit, when appropriate, the designee of a member of  , including participants invited under section 3 of this order, to participate in lieu of the member or participant. The Deputy Attorney General shall convene   at such times as the Deputy Attorney General deems appropriate.

 . 3

.

Additional Participation for Specified Functions

. In   performance of the functions set forth in subsection 4(a) and (c) of this order, and to the extent permitted by law, the Attorney General, or the Deputy Attorney General as his designee, shall periodically convene meetings and shall invite participation from the following senior officials from executive departments and agencies (agencies), or their designees, as well as such other officials of   as the Attorney General or Deputy Attorney General deems appropriate:

(a) the Secretary of the  ;

(b) the Secretary of  ;

(c) the Secretary of  ;

(d) the Secretary of  ;

(e) the Secretary of  ;

(f) the Secretary of  ;

(g) the Secretary of  ;

(h) the Secretary of  ;

(i) the Administrator of  ;

(j) the Chairman of   of  ;

(k)  ;

(l) the Administrator of    ;

(m) the Director of  ;

(n) the Chairman of  ;

(o) the Chairman of  ;

(p)  ;

(q) the Chairman of  ;

(r) the Chairman of  ;

(s) the Chairperson of   of  ;

(t) the Director of  ;

(u) the Comptroller of the Currency; and

(v) the Chief Postal Inspector for  .

 . 4

.

Functions

. Consistent with the authorities assigned to the Attorney General by law, and other applicable law, the Task Force shall:

(a) provide guidance for the investigation and prosecution of cases involving fraud on the government, the financial markets, and consumers, including cyber-fraud and other fraud targeting the elderly, service members and veterans, and other members of the public; procurement and grant fraud; securities and commodities fraud, as well as other corporate fraud, with particular attention to fraud affecting the general public; digital currency fraud; money laundering, including the recovery of proceeds; health care fraud; tax fraud; and other financial crimes;

(b) provide recommendations to the Attorney General on fraud enforcement initiatives across   and on any matters the Task Force determines from time to time to be important in the investigation and prosecution of fraud and other financial crimes; and

(c) make recommendations to the President, through the Attorney General for:

(i) action to enhance cooperation among agencies in the investigation and prosecution of fraud and other financial crimes;

(ii) action to enhance cooperation among  ,  , local, and tribal authorities in connection with the detection, investigation, and prosecution of fraud and other financial crimes; and

(iii) changes in rules, regulations, or policy, or recommendations to the   regarding legislative measures, to improve the effective investigation and prosecution of fraud and other financial crimes.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This Task Force shall replace   created by Executive Order   of   (Establishment of  ).   is hereby terminated pursuant to section 8 of Executive Order   and that order is hereby revoked.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 6

.

Termination

. The Task Force shall terminate when directed by the President or, with the approval of the President, by the Attorney General.
