Section 1

.

Policy

. Faith-based and community organizations have tremendous ability to serve individuals, families, and communities through means that are different from those of government and with capacity that often exceeds that of government. These organizations lift people up, keep families strong, and solve problems at the local level. The executive branch wants faith-based and community organizations, to the fullest opportunity permitted by law, to compete on a level playing field for grants, contracts, programs, and other   funding opportunities. The efforts of faith-based and community organizations are essential to revitalizing communities, and   welcomes opportunities to partner with such organizations through innovative, measurable, and outcome-driven initiatives.

 . 2

.

Amendments to Executive Orders

. (a) Executive Order   (Agency Responsibilities With Respect to    ), Executive Order   of   (Equal Protection of the Laws for Faith-Based and Community Organizations), as amended by Executive Order   of   (  Policymaking Criteria for Partnerships with   and Other Neighborhood Organizations), Executive Order   of   (Responsibilities of   and the Agency for International Development With Respect to    ), Executive Order   (Responsibilities of   and   and   with   to    ), and Executive Order   (Responsibilities of   to    ), are hereby amended by:

(i) substituting "White House Faith and Opportunity Initiative" for "  and Community Initiatives" each time it appears in those orders;

(ii) substituting "White House Faith and Opportunity Initiative" for "White House OFBCI" each time it appears in those orders;

(iii) substituting "Centers for Faith and Opportunity Initiatives" for "Centers for Faith-Based and Community Initiatives" each time it appears in those orders; and

(iv) substituting "White House Faith and Opportunity Initiative" for "Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships" each time it appears in those orders.

(b) Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended by striking section 2(h) and redesignating sections 2(i) and 2(j) as sections 2(h) and 2(i), respectively.

 . 3

.

White House Faith and Opportunity Initiative

. (a) There is established within   of the President   and  ).

(i) The Initiative shall be headed by an   to   and Opportunity Initiative (Advisor). The   shall be housed in   and shall work with that office and  , in consultation with     established by Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , to implement this order.

(ii) The Initiative shall, from time to time and consistent with applicable law, consult with and seek information from experts and various faith and community leaders from outside  , including those from  , local, and tribal governments, identified by  ,  , and  . These experts and leaders shall be identified based on their expertise in a broad range of areas in which faith-based and community organizations operate, including poverty alleviation, religious liberty, strengthening marriage and family, education, solutions for substance abuse and addiction, crime prevention and reduction, prisoner reentry, and health and humanitarian services.

(iii) The   shall make recommendations to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, regarding changes to policies, programs, and practices that affect the delivery of services by faith-based and community organizations.

(iv) Executive departments and agencies (agencies) that lack a Center for Faith and Opportunity Initiative shall designate a Liaison for Faith and Opportunity Initiatives as a point of contact to coordinate with the   in carrying out this order.

(v) All agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide such information, support, and assistance to the   as it may request to develop public policy proposals.

(b) To the extent permitted by law, the Initiative shall:

(i) periodically convene meetings with the individuals described in section 3(a)(ii) of this order;

(ii) periodically convene meetings with representatives from   and other representatives from across agencies as the   may designate;

(iii) provide recommendations regarding aspects of my  's policy agenda that affect faith-based and community programs and initiatives;

(iv) help integrate those aspects of my  's policy agenda that affect faith-based and other community organizations throughout  ;

(v) showcase innovative initiatives by faith-based and community organizations that serve and strengthen individuals, families, and communities throughout  ;

(vi) notify the Attorney General, or his designee, of concerns raised by faith-based and community organizations about any failures of the executive branch to comply with protections of Federal law for religious liberty as outlined in the Attorney General's Memorandum of   (Federal Law Protections for Religious Liberty), issued pursuant to Executive Order   of   (Promoting Free Speech and Religious Liberty); and

(vii) identify and propose means to reduce, in accordance with Executive Order   and the Attorney General's Memorandum of  , burdens on the exercise of religious convictions and legislative, regulatory, and other barriers to the full and active engagement of faith-based and community organizations in Government-funded or Government-conducted activities and programs.

 . 4

.

Revocation of Executive Orders

. Executive Order   of   (Establishment of    ), and Executive Order   of   (Amendments to Executive Order   and Establishment of the President's   and  ), are hereby revoked.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
