Section 1

. (a) All property and interests in property of   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(b) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  :

(i) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person included on the list of   and Blocked Persons maintained by   whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(ii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

(c) The prohibitions in subsections (a)-(b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.

 . 2

. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1(b) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of   determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of  , including when the Secretary so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important   law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of   shall consult the Secretary of   on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of  . Such persons shall be treated in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of   shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary has established or may establish pursuant to  .

 . 3

. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 4

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 5

. Nothing in this order shall prohibit:

(a) transactions for the conduct of the official business of   by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof; or

(b) transactions related to the provision of articles such as food, clothing, and medicine intended to be used to relieve human suffering.

 . 6

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d) the term "Government of Venezuela" includes the state and  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including   and  ,   (PdVSA), any person owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the foregoing, and any person who has acted or purported to act directly or indirectly for or on behalf of, any of the foregoing, including as a member of the   regime. For the purposes of section 2 of this order, the term "Government of Venezuela" shall not include any   citizen, any permanent resident alien of  , any alien lawfully admitted to  , or any alien holding a valid   visa.

 . 7

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 8

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 9

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 10

. This order is effective at 9:00 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .
