Section 1

.

Policy

. (a)  's cybersecurity workforce is a strategic asset that protects the   people, the homeland, and the   way of life.  , the President's   Management Agenda, and Executive Order 13800 of   (Strengthening  ), each emphasize that a superior cybersecurity workforce will promote   prosperity and preserve peace.  's cybersecurity workforce is a diverse group of practitioners who govern, design, defend, analyze, administer, operate, and maintain the data, systems, and networks on which our economy and way of life depend. Whether they are employed in the public or private sectors, they are guardians of our national and economic security.

(b)   must enhance the workforce mobility of  's cybersecurity practitioners to improve  's national cybersecurity. During their careers,  's cybersecurity practitioners will serve in various roles for multiple and diverse entities.   policy must facilitate the seamless movement of cybersecurity practitioners between the public and private sectors, maximizing the contributions made by their diverse skills, experiences, and talents to our  .

(c)   must support the development of cybersecurity skills and encourage ever-greater excellence so that   can maintain its competitive edge in cybersecurity.   must also recognize and reward the country's highest-performing cybersecurity practitioners and teams.

(d)   must create the organizational and technological tools required to maximize the cybersecurity talents and capabilities of   workers --especially when those talents and capabilities can advance our national and economic security. The Nation is experiencing a shortage of cybersecurity talent and capability, and innovative approaches are required to improve access to training that maximizes individuals' cybersecurity knowledge, skills, and abilities. Training opportunities, such as work-based learning, apprenticeships, and blended learning approaches, must be enhanced for both new workforce entrants and those who are advanced in their careers.

(e) In accordance with Executive Order  , the President will continue to hold heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) accountable for managing cybersecurity risk to their enterprises, which includes ensuring the effectiveness of their cybersecurity workforces.

 . 2

.

Strengthening  . (a) To grow the cybersecurity capability of  , increase integration of the Federal cybersecurity workforce, and strengthen the skills of Federal information technology and cybersecurity practitioners, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Director of   (OMB) and the Director of   (OPM), shall establish a cybersecurity rotational assignment program, which will serve as a mechanism for knowledge transfer and a development program for cybersecurity practitioners. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Directors of OMB and  , shall provide a report to the President that describes the proposed program, identifies its resource implications, and recommends actions required for its implementation. The report shall evaluate how to achieve the following objectives, to the extent permitted by applicable law, as part of the program:

(i) The non-reimbursable detail of information technology and cybersecurity employees, who are nominated by their employing agencies, to serve at   ( );

(ii) The non-reimbursable detail of experienced cybersecurity   employees to other agencies to assist in improving those agencies' cybersecurity risk management;

(iii) The use of   (NICE Framework) as the basis for cybersecurity skill requirements for program participants;

(iv) The provision of training curricula and expansion of learning experiences to develop participants' skill levels; and

(v) Peer mentoring to enhance workforce integration.

(b) Consistent with applicable law and to the maximum extent practicable,  , in consultation with the Director of OMB and the Secretary of  , shall:

(i) Incorporate the NICE Framework lexicon and taxonomy into workforce knowledge and skill requirements used in contracts for information technology and cybersecurity services;

(ii) Ensure that contracts for information technology and cybersecurity services include reporting requirements that will enable agencies to evaluate whether personnel have the necessary knowledge and skills to perform the tasks specified in the contract, consistent with  ; and

(iii) Provide a report to the President, within   of this order, that describes how   has been incorporated into contracts for information technology and cybersecurity services, evaluates the effectiveness of this approach in improving services provided to  , and makes recommendations to increase the effective use of   by   contractors.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall identify a list of cybersecurity aptitude assessments for agencies to use in identifying current employees with the potential to acquire cybersecurity skills for placement in reskilling programs to perform cybersecurity work. Agencies shall incorporate one or more of these assessments into their personnel development programs, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(d) Agencies shall ensure that existing awards and decorations for the uniformed services and civilian personnel recognize performance and achievements in the areas of cybersecurity and cyber-operations, including by ensuring the availability of awards and decorations equivalent to citations issued pursuant to Executive Order 10694 of   (Authorizing the Secretaries of the  ,  , and   To Issue Citations in the Name of the President of   and Naval Units for Outstanding Performance in Action), as amended. Where necessary and appropriate, agencies shall establish new awards and decorations to recognize performance and achievements in the areas of cybersecurity and cyber-operations. The Assistant to the President for   may recommend to agencies that any cyber unified coordination group or similar ad hoc interagency group that has addressed a significant cybersecurity or cyber-operations-related national security crisis, incident, or effort be recognized for appropriate awards and decorations.

(e) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Director of OMB, and the heads of other appropriate agencies, shall develop a plan for an   cybersecurity competition (President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition) for Federal civilian and military employees. The goal of the competition shall be to identify, challenge, and reward   best cybersecurity practitioners and teams across offensive and defensive cybersecurity disciplines. The plan shall be submitted to the President within   of the date of this order. The first competition shall be held  , and annually thereafter. The plan for the competition shall address the following:

(i) The challenges and benefits of inviting advisers, participants, or observers from   entities to observe or take part in the competition and recommendations for including them in future competitions, as appropriate;

(ii) How  , through  , in consultation with  , can provide expert technical advice and assistance to support the competition, as appropriate;

(iii) The parameters for the competition, including the development of multiple individual and team events that test cybersecurity skills related to   and other relevant skills, as appropriate. These parameters should include competition categories involving individual and team events, software reverse engineering and exploitation, network operations, forensics, big data analysis, cyber analysis, cyber defense, cyber exploitation, secure programming, obfuscated coding, cyber-physical systems, and other disciplines;

(iv) How to encourage agencies to select their best cybersecurity practitioners as individual and team participants. Such practitioners should include Federal employees and uniformed services personnel from   civilian agencies, as well as   active duty military personnel, civilians, and those serving in a drilling reserve capacity in   or  ;

(v) The extent to which agencies, as well as uniformed services, may develop a President's Cup awards program that is consistent with applicable law and regulations governing awards and that allows for the provision of cash awards of not less than $25,000. Any such program shall require the agency to establish an awards program before allowing its employees to participate in the President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition. In addition, any such program may not preclude agencies from recognizing winning and non-winning participants through other means, including honorary awards, informal recognition awards, rating-based cash awards, time-off awards,  , or other agency-based compensation flexibilities as appropriate and consistent with applicable law; and (vi) How the uniformed services, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, may designate service members who win these competitions as having skills at a time when there is a critical shortage of such skills within the uniformed services. The plan should also address how the uniformed services may provide winning service members with a combination of bonuses, advancements, and meritorious recognition to be determined by the Secretaries of the agencies concerned.

(f) The Director of OMB shall, in consultation with appropriate agencies, develop   a list of agencies and subdivisions related to cybersecurity that have a primary function of intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work, including descriptions of such functions. The Director of OMB shall provide this list to the President, through the Deputy Assistant to the President for   and   ( ),   starting  , for consideration of whether those agencies or subdivisions should be exempted from coverage under  , consistent with the requirements of section 7103(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code.

 . 3

.

Strengthening the Nation's Cybersecurity Workforce

. (a) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of  ), in coordination with the Secretary of   and the heads of other agencies as the   determine is appropriate, shall execute, consistent with applicable law and to the greatest extent practicable, the recommendations from the report to the President on   (Workforce Report) developed pursuant to Executive Order  . The Secretaries shall develop a consultative process that includes  , territorial, local, and tribal governments, academia, private-sector stakeholders, and other relevant partners to assess and make recommendations to address national cybersecurity workforce needs and to ensure greater mobility in the   cybersecurity workforce. To fulfill   vision of preparing, growing, and sustaining a national cybersecurity workforce that safeguards and promotes  's national security and economic prosperity, priority consideration will be given to the following imperatives:

(i) To launch a national Call to Action to draw attention to and mobilize public- and private-sector resources to address cybersecurity workforce needs;

(ii) To transform, elevate, and sustain the cybersecurity learning environment to grow a dynamic and diverse cybersecurity workforce;

(iii) To align education and training with employers' cybersecurity workforce needs, improve coordination, and prepare individuals for lifelong careers; and

(iv) To establish and use measures that demonstrate the effectiveness and impact of cybersecurity workforce investments.

(b) To strengthen the ability of the   to identify and mitigate cybersecurity vulnerabilities in critical infrastructure and defense systems, particularly cyber-physical systems for which safety and reliability depend on secure control systems, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Director of   and the Secretary of  , shall provide a report to the President, through the DAPHSCT, within   of the date of this order that:

(i) Identifies and evaluates skills gaps in   and non-Federal cybersecurity personnel and training gaps for specific critical infrastructure sectors, defense critical

infrastructure, and   platform information technologies; and

(ii) Recommends curricula for closing the identified skills gaps for Federal personnel and steps   can take to close such gaps for non-Federal personnel by, for example, supporting the development of similar curricula by education or training providers.

(c) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the   and  , shall develop and implement, consistent with applicable law, an annual   to be presented to one elementary and one secondary school educator per year who best instill skills, knowledge, and passion with respect to cybersecurity and cybersecurity-related subjects. In developing and implementing this award, the Secretary of   shall emphasize demonstrated superior educator accomplishment—without respect to research, scholarship, or technology development—as well as academic achievement by the educator's students.

(d) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other appropriate agencies shall encourage the voluntary integration of   into existing education, training, and workforce development efforts undertaken by  , territorial, local, tribal, academic, non-profit, and private-sector entities, consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of   shall provide   updates to the President regarding effective uses of   by   entities and make recommendations for improving the application of   in cybersecurity education, training, and workforce development.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
