115 HCON 112 IH: Urging the administration to initiate the International Agreement to Prohibit the Eating of Dogs and Cats.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-10-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. CON. RES. 112
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 7, 2022
Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois
(for himself and
Mr. Panetta
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
, and in addition to the Committee on
Agriculture
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Urging the administration to initiate the International Agreement to Prohibit the Eating of Dogs and Cats.
Whereas a bipartisan domestic prohibition on the knowing slaughter, transportation, possession, purchase, or sale of a dog or cat for human consumption was included in section 12515 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (
Public Law 115–334
), which was enacted on December 20, 2018;
Whereas the dog and cat meat trade occurs throughout the world, primarily in Asia;
Whereas established dog meat markets still exist today;
Whereas it is estimated that 30,000,000 dogs and 10,000,000 cats die annually worldwide as a result of the dog and cat meat trade, and that a considerable number of the dogs and cats in this trade are stolen pets still wearing collars when they reach the slaughterhouses, in addition to stray dogs and cats who are captured for slaughter;
Whereas there have been reports of abuse, poor living conditions, and cruel slaughtering techniques for dogs and cats farmed for their meat;
Whereas many dogs and cats die during transport to slaughterhouses after days or weeks crammed into small cages on the back of vehicles without food or water, and others suffer illness and injury during transport;
Whereas the extreme suffering of dogs and cats at such slaughterhouses and on transportation trucks would breach anticruelty laws in the United States and other countries;
Whereas many government officials, civil society advocates, and activists including the World Dog Alliance are working to end the dog and cat meat trade. Taiwan and the Chinese city of Shenzhen have passed laws banning the consumption of dog and cat meat; the South Korean Government has formed the Consultative Discussion Committee on Ending Dog Meat Consumption in December 2021; and
Whereas legislators in the United States, United Kingdom, Japan, Norway, and Sweden have urged their heads of State in support of the International Agreement to Prohibit the Eating of Dogs and Cats: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
calls for an end to the consumption and trade of dog and cat meat;
(2)
urges all nations to join the International Agreement to Prohibit the Eating of Dogs and Cats; and
(3)
affirms the commitment of the United States to advancing the cause of animal protection and animal welfare, both domestically and around the world.
