 

SECTION 101.

Delegation of functions.

Certain functions under   of  , as amended (which) were transferred to the President by the provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat.  ) ), are hereby delegated to the Secretary of  , and  , hereafter in this Part referred to as the Secretary, as follows:

(a) All functions (including, as used in this order, powers, duties, and authority) under section 201 (h) of that Act, 50 U.S.C. App.   (h), to the extent that they pertain to the stockpiling of medical supplies and equipment.

(b) To the extent that they are incidental to or necessary for the performance by or under the Secretary of the functions delegated by the provisions of section 101(a) of this order, other functions under   of  , as amended, excluding, however, functions under sections 102(a), 201(b), and 402 and Title III of that Act.

 . 102.

Redelegation.

The Secretary may redelegate any of the functions delegated to him by this order to any of his subordinates.

PART II. FOOD  

 . 201.

Delegation of functions.

Certain functions under   of  , as amended (which were transferred to the President by the provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat.  ) ), are hereby delegated to the Secretary of  , hereafter in this Part referred to as the Secretary, as follows:

(a) All functions under section 201 (h) of that Act, 50 U.S.C App.  ), to the extent that they pertain to the stockpiling of food.

(b) To the extent that they are   to or necessary for the performance by or under the Secretary of the functions delegated by the provisions of section 201(a) of this order other functions under   of  , as amended, excluding, however, functions under sections 102(a), 201(b), and 402 and Title III of that Act.

 . 202.

Redelegation.

The Secretary may redelegate any of the functions delegated to him by this order to any of his subordinates.

PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 . 301.

Relationships with other agencies.

The responsibilities of the Director of   in respect of the functions delegated by the provisions of Parts I and II of this order shall be those stated in section 2(a) of Executive Order No.   (26 F.R. 6577).

 . 302.

Property, personnel, and records.

Subject to law, property, personnel, and records of   shall be transferred as follows:

(a) To  , and  , so much there of, related to the functions delegated by the provisions of Part I of this order, as may be determined jointly by the Secretary of     and the Director of the said Office.

(b) To   so much thereof, related to the functions delegated by the provisions of Part II of this order, as may be determined jointly by the Secretary of   and the said Director.

 . 303.

Funds.

There shall be transferred to   and to  , and   so much of the appropriations, allocations, and other funds (available or to be made available) of   as shall be determined in pursuance of the provisions of section 202(b) of   of   (31 U.S.C. 581c(b) ) and section 1 (k) of Executive Order No.   of  .

 . 304.

Prior Executive orders.

Exclusive of Executive Order No.  , all prior Executive orders (including Executive Order No.  , as amended, and Executive Order No.   of  ) are hereby superseded to the extent that, immediately prior to the issuance of this order and in respect of the functions delegated by the provisions of Parts I and II of this order (to the extent there delegated), they delegate or otherwise assign, or authorize the delegation or other assignment of, functions or subject, or authorize the subjection of, the performance of functions to supervision, direction, control, or coordination.

 . 305.

Other prior actions.

Except to the extent that they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this order, and except to the extent revoked, superseded or otherwise rendered inapplicable before the date of this order, all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements, and other actions heretofore made, issued, or entered into with respect to any function delegated by the provisions of Part I or of Part II of this order (to the extent there delegated) shall continue in effect until such time as the Secretary of  , and   or the Secretary of  , as the case may be, under the authority of this order, shall amend, modify, or terminate them. The status of prior Executive orders shall be governed by the provisions of section 304 of this order.
