SECTION 1. There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall be composed of not more than twelve members, each of whom shall be appointed by the President from among persons outside the Government. One of the members of the   shall be designated by the President as Chairman thereof.

 . 2. It shall be the function of the   to prepare and present to the President recommendations with respect to improved ways of financing expenditures required of nominees for the offices of President and Vice President. As may be appropriate, the   shall examine and inquire into, and assemble information with respect to, the costs of campaigning in Presidential elections and such other matters or considerations as may be relevant to the development of the  's recommendations to the President.

 . 3. All who may be in a position to do so are requested to furnish the   information pertinent to its work and to otherwise facilitate the  's work.

 . 4. Each member of the   shall receive compensation of $75 for   such member is engaged upon the work of the  . The   is authorized to appoint such personnel as may be necessary to assist the   in connection with the performance of its functions without regard to the civil service and classification laws but no individual shall receive compensation at a rate in excess of $15,000 per annum. The   is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of section 15 of the Act of   (5 U.S.C.  ); the compensation for such services shall not exceed the rate of $75 per diem in the case of an individual.

 . 5. The compensation of the members and employees of the  , lawful allowances therefor, and any other necessary expenses arising in connection with the work of the   shall be paid from the appropriation appearing under the heading "Special Projects" in title I of    , and  ,  , 75 Stat. 269. Such payments shall be made without regard to the provisions of section 3681 of the Revised Statutes and section 9 of the Act of  , 35 Stat.   (31 U.S.C. 672 and 673).

 . 6.   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the   on a reimbursable basis.

 . 7. The   in its discretion may transmit to the President such preliminary or interim report or reports as it may deem appropriate. It shall transmit its principal report to the President not   April  , and such additional supporting materials thereafter as it deems appropriate. The   shall terminate not   after the date of its transmittal of its principal report to the President.
