Whereas Article V of the Constitution of the United States states that
The Congress … on the Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments
to the Constitution;
Whereas congressional and State records of purported plenary applications for amendments on any subject and applications for single subject Fiscal Responsibility Amendments compiled by the Article V Library list 42 total applications over time, 39 active applications in 1979, 40 active applications in 1983, and at least 34 active applications in many years thereafter;
Whereas Alexander Hamilton in Federalist 85 stated that
The Congress
shall call a convention
. Nothing in this particular is left to the discretion of that body
;
Whereas beginning in 1979, when Congress appears to have failed in its constitutional duty to count applications and call a
Convention for proposing Amendments
, the Nation’s debt has increased to more than $30,000,000,000,000 from $830,000,000,000, while the value of the dollar has declined by over 70 percent;
Whereas the Constitution was ratified by Convention delegates
chosen in each State by the People thereof
, and the 21st Amendment, repealing Prohibition, was ratified in 1933 by a vote of the people for Yes-pledged delegates in 38 of 39 State Conventions; and
Whereas the Supreme Court’s unanimous opinion in Chiafalo v. Washington stated:
electors … have no ground for reversing the vote of millions of its citizens. That direction accords with the Constitution—as well as with the trust of the Nation that here, We the People rule.
: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Call for Article V Convention of States
(a)
In general
(1)
Call for convention; timing
As provided in Article V of the Constitution of the United States, and except as provided in paragraph (2), Congress hereby calls a Convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution of the United States, and sets the date and place for the Convention to occur during the 180-day period which begins on the date the Archivist of the United States notifies Congress under section 106c of title 1, United States Code, that the Archivist has identified plenary or issue specific applications from at least two-thirds of the States calling for such a convention.
(2)
Exception
Paragraph (1) does not apply if, prior to the expiration of the 60-day period which begins on the date of the adoption of this concurrent resolution—
(A)
the Archivist of the United States submits to Congress a certification that the Archivist finds that, as of such date, there have never been plenary or amendment-specific non-rescinded applications from at least two-thirds of the States calling for a convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution; and
(B)
the Archivist includes in the certification a detailed explanation of the Archivist’s findings for each State.
(b)
Ratification of amendments by States
Any proposed amendment at the Convention called under this section shall be ratified by a vote of We the People in three-quarters (38) of the States via State convention delegates who shall
have no ground for reversing the vote of millions of [their] citizens
(Chiafalo v. Washington).
2.
Transmission to Administrator of General Services
A copy of this concurrent resolution shall be transmitted to the Administrator of General Services for submission to the legislatures of the several States.
