1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
SNAP Next Step Act of 2023
.
2.
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act eligibility
Section 6(d)(4) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(P)
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act eligibility
(i)
Definition of covered individual
In this subparagraph, the term
covered individual
means an individual that—
(I)
is in a household that is receiving assistance under the supplemental nutrition assistance program;
(II)
meets the requirements for participation in the supplemental nutrition assistance program under this subsection or is exempt from those requirements pursuant to this subsection;
(III)
is unemployed or underemployed;
(IV)
is in a family that is not receiving assistance through the program of block grants to States for temporary assistance for needy families established under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.
); and
(V)
is not enrolled in a State program that is identified as an Employment First program by the State workforce agency.
(ii)
Eligibility
A State agency may use administrative funds to recruit participants for and carry out a program that provides employment and training activities (as defined in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3102
)) under subtitle B of title I of that Act (
29 U.S.C. 3151 et seq.
) to covered individuals.
.
3.
Employment calculator
Section 6(d)(4) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4)
) (as amended by section 2) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(Q)
Employment calculator
(i)
In general
Each State agency may develop a publicly available employment calculator on the website of the State agency that assists participants receiving benefits under the supplemental nutrition assistance program in calculating whether the amount of benefits received would be greater or lesser than income from future employment.
(ii)
Administrative cost
Carrying out clause (i) shall be an administrative cost for purposes of section 16(a).
.
