1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
China Oil Export Prohibition Act of 2023
.
2.
Prohibition on export of crude and refined oil and certain petroleum products to the People’s Republic of China
(a)
In general
The Energy Policy and Conservation Act (
42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after section 101 the following:
102.
Prohibition on export of certain petroleum products to the People’s Republic of China
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no petroleum product described in subsection (b) that is produced in the United States may be exported from the United States to the People’s Republic of China.
(b)
Petroleum product described
A petroleum product referred to in subsection (a) is—
(1)
crude oil;
(2)
refined oil or a refined oil product;
(3)
residual fuel oil; or
(4)
any other petroleum product (other than natural gas or any natural gas liquid product).
(c)
Applicability
(1)
Petroleum products in transport
Subsection (a) shall not apply to any petroleum product described in subsection (b) that is in the process of being transported from the United States to the People’s Republic of China as of the date on which the prohibition under that subsection takes effect pursuant to subsection (d).
(2)
Natural gas
Subsection (a) does not apply to natural gas or any natural gas liquid product.
(d)
Effective date
The prohibition described in subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 10 days after the date of enactment of the
China Oil Export Prohibition Act of 2023
.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (
Public Law 94–163
; 89 Stat. 871; 114 Stat. 2034) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 101 the following:
Sec. 102. Prohibition on export of certain petroleum products to the People’s Republic of China.
.
(c)
Conforming amendment
Section 101(b) of division O of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (
42 U.S.C. 6212a(b)
) is amended by inserting
and section 102 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act
after
subsections (c) and (d)
.
