1.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
City
The term
City
means the city of Fargo, North Dakota.
(2)
Department
The term
Department
means the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(3)
Parcel
The term
parcel
means the approximately 2.73 acres of land of the Department of Veterans Affairs at Fargo National Cemetery in Harwood, North Dakota, located in the southeast corner of the proposed expansion of the cemetery as depicted on the map provided by the Department entitled
Fargo National Cemetery
Figure B
and dated April 21, 2023.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
2.
Conveyance of Department of Veterans Affairs land at Fargo National Cemetery
(a)
In general
After the acquisition by the Department of Veterans Affairs of 29.06 acres adjacent to the original 4.82-acre area of Fargo National Cemetery, North Dakota, and only if such acquisition is completed, upon a written request from the City for the conveyance of the parcel, the Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the City under which the Secretary shall convey to the City all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcel for the purpose of improving the experience of visitors and volunteers at Fargo National Cemetery.
(b)
Consideration
(1)
In general
Under the agreement described in subsection (a), for the conveyance of the parcel, the City shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the market value of the parcel, as determined by the appraisal conducted under paragraph (2).
(2)
Appraisal
The Secretary shall conduct an appraisal of the parcel to be conveyed under subsection (a) in accordance with—
(A)
the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions;
(B)
the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice; and
(C)
any other applicable law (including regulations).
(c)
Additional conditions
The Secretary may require such additional conditions in connection with the conveyance of the parcel as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(d)
Proceeds
Proceeds from the conveyance of the parcel shall be deposited into the National Cemetery Administration Facilities Operation Fund.
3.
Rules of construction
(a)
No requirement for purchase or sale of other parcels
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require or encourage the Secretary to purchase or sell any parcel not described in section 1(3).
(b)
No requirement for special agreements
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require or encourage the Secretary to enter into any special agreement with an entity not described in section 1(1).
