1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sanctions Lists Harmonization Act
.
2.
Interagency coordination with respect to inclusion of individuals and entities on sanctions lists
(a)
Notification to other Federal officials
Not later than 30 days after the date on which an individual or entity is included on one of the lists described in subsection (d), the Federal official responsible for administering such list shall notify the Federal officials responsible for administering the other lists described in subsection (d) of the inclusion of the individual or entity on such list.
(b)
Determination and other requirements of other Federal official
(1)
Review
Not later than 30 days after the date on which a Federal official receives a notification under subsection (a) of the inclusion of an individual or entity on one of the lists described in subsection (d), such Federal official shall initiate a review regarding whether such individual or entity warrants inclusion on such other lists.
(2)
Determination
Not later than 90 days after the date on which a Federal official receives a notification under subsection (a) of the inclusion of an individual or entity on one of the lists described in subsection (d), such Federal official shall make a determination of whether to include such individual or entity on such other lists.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the enactment of this Act, each Federal agency maintaining a list described in subsection (d) shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report—
(A)
certifying compliance with subsections (a) and (b);
(B)
explaining the agency’s deliberative process to meet the requirements in subsections (a) and (b); and
(C)
enumerating any instances in which the requirements in subsections (a) and (b) led to the inclusion of additional individuals or entities on one of the lists described in subsection (d).
(2)
Form
The report required by this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
(d)
Lists described
The lists described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
The list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury.
(2)
The Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies (NS–CMIC) List of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3)
The Sectoral Sanctions List of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(4)
The Entity List maintained and set forth in Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations.
(5)
The Military End-User List maintained and set forth in Supplement No. 7 to part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations.
(6)
The list of Chinese military companies operating directly or indirectly in the United States maintained by the Secretary of Defense under section 1260H(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (
Public Law 116–283
;
10 U.S.C. 113
note).
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate.
(2)
Export Administration Regulations
The term
Export Administration Regulations
means the regulations set forth in subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor regulations.
