1.
External provider scheduling program of Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 17
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1703F
the following new section:
1703G.
External Provider Scheduling Program
(a)
In general
There is established within the Department a national External Provider Scheduling Program (in this section referred to as the
Program
) to assist the Department in scheduling appointments for care and services under the Veterans Community Care Program under section 1703 of this title.
(b)
Elements of program
The Program shall consist of technology that allows schedulers of the Department to view the schedules of health care providers participating in the Veterans Community Care Program under section 1703 of this title and schedule, in real-time, appointments for care and services under such section.
(c)
Use of contracts
The Secretary shall carry out the Program through an existing contract entered into by the Department, if feasible, or a new contract.
(d)
Reduction in wait times
The Secretary shall ensure that the Program—
(1)
reduces the time (measured in days) from referral of veterans to health care providers under the Veterans Community Care Program under section 1703 of this title to the actual scheduling of appointments for care or services under such section; and
(2)
reduces the time (measured in days and hours) for schedulers of the Department to schedule appointments for care or services under such section.
(e)
Annual report
Not later than September 30 of each year through 2028, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the progress of the Secretary in establishing the Program.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 17
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 1703F
the following new item:
1703G. External Provider Scheduling Program.
.
(b)
Availability of program
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the national External Provider Scheduling Program established under section 1703G of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(1), is available to all medical centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs by not later than September 30, 2025.
(c)
Conforming amendments
Section 1703 of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(2)(A), by inserting
, including pursuant to the program under section 1703G of this title,
after
medical appointments
; and
(2)
in subsection (h)(2)(B), by inserting
, including pursuant to the program under section 1703G of this title
before the period at the end.
