1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Secure Payments Act of 2024
.
2.
Definition
In this Act, the term
Reg II proposed rule
means the notice of proposed rulemaking entitled
Debit Card Interchange Fees and Routing
(88 Fed. Reg. 78100 (November 14, 2023)).
3.
Study and quantitative impact analysis related to interchange transaction fee requirements
(a)
In general
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall conduct—
(1)
a study of—
(A)
the impacts of the Reg II proposed rule on—
(i)
consumers, including access to free or low- and no-cost deposit accounts;
(ii)
the costs to merchants of accepting debit cards; and
(iii)
efforts of financial institutions to mitigate fraud; and
(B)
the cumulative impacts of all proposed rules of Federal agencies issued between January 1, 2023, and the date of enactment of this Act that affect deposit accounts; and
(2)
a quantitative impact analysis of the Reg II proposed rule to study—
(A)
the potential impact of the rule on consumers, including the affordability of debit products and availability of low- or no-fee banking products serving low- and moderate-income communities; and
(B)
the impact of the changes made by the rule on small insured depository institutions.
(b)
Report
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall submit to Congress a report that contains all findings and determinations made in carrying out the study and the quantitative impact analysis required under subsection (a).
(c)
Requirement To consider results of report before finalizing Reg II proposed rule
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may not finalize the Reg II proposed rule until—
(1)
the date on which the report required under subsection (b) is issued; and
(2)
considering the results contained in the report required under subsection (b); and
(3)
taking into account—
(A)
the effect of the Reg II proposed rule on the capital and earnings of depository institutions; and
(B)
whether the Board of Governors can determine that interchange fee caps provide net benefits to low- and moderate-income and underserved customers.
