1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Enhanced End-Use Monitoring Accountability Act of 2024
.
2.
Restriction on security assistance to Ukraine
No Federal funds may be obligated or expended to provide Ukraine defense articles or services that require Enhanced End-Use Monitoring (EEUM) until all of the following conditions are met:
(1)
The Inspector General of the Department of Defense certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that—
(A)
all durable defense articles requiring EEUM that are currently in Ukraine are inventoried by serial number; and
(B)
the overall delinquency rate of EEUM-designated defense articles sent to Ukraine has dropped below 10 percentage points.
(2)
The Department of Defense fully implements the recommendations outlined in the Department of Defense Inspector General’s January 10, 2024, report entitled,
Evaluation of the DoD’s Enhanced End-Use Monitoring of Defense Articles Provided to Ukraine
.
3.
Reporting on enhanced end-use monitoring of defense articles and services provided to Ukraine
(a)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 30 days thereafter until the Inspector General of the Department of Defense certifies that the overall delinquency rate of defense articles that require EEUM and were provided by the United States to Ukraine is less than one percent, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on measures being taken to account for United States defense articles designated for Ukraine since the February 24, 2022, Russian invasion of Ukraine, including descriptions of—
(1)
measures with regard to such articles that require EEUM;
(2)
measures to ensure that such articles reach their intended recipients and are used for their intended purposes;
(3)
any other measures to promote accountability for the use of such articles; and
(4)
any occurrences of articles not reaching their intended recipients or used for their intended purposes and a description of any remedies taken.
(b)
Form
The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may be accompanied by a classified annex.
4.
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Oversight and Accountability, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
