1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cruising for Alaska's Workforce Act
.
2.
Large cruise ships transporting passengers between ports in Alaska or between a port in Alaska and a port in Washington
(a)
In general
Chapter 551 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
55124.
Large cruise ships transporting passengers between ports in Alaska or between a port in Alaska and a port in Washington
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Certificate
The term
certificate
means a certificate of financial responsibility for indemnification of passengers for nonperformance of transportation issued by the Federal Maritime Commission under section 44102 of this title.
(2)
Covered passenger vessel
The term
covered passenger vessel
means a vessel to which sections 3507 and 3508 of this title apply, as described in section 3507(k) of this title, that is transporting more than 1,000 passengers.
(3)
Covered route
The term
covered route
, with respect to the transportation of passengers, means a route transporting passengers directly between—
(A)
a port in the State of Alaska and another port in the State of Alaska; or
(B)
a port in the State of Alaska and a port in the State of Washington.
(b)
Exemption from requirements for transportation of passengers
Notwithstanding section 55103 and except as otherwise provided in this section, a covered passenger vessel that is not qualified to engage in the coastwise trade may transport passengers on a covered route.
(c)
Expiration of exemption
On a showing to the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating made after the date of enactment of this section by the owner or charterer of a covered passenger vessel that such vessel is qualified to engage in the coastwise trade and is offering or advertising passenger service between a port in one State and a port in another State, or between 2 ports in the same State, without regard to whether such service is on a covered route, pursuant to a certificate, the Secretary shall notify the owner or operator of each covered passenger vessel transporting passengers under subsection (b) on any covered route to terminate that transportation within 270 days after the Secretary's notification. Except as provided in subsection (d), the authority to transport passengers under subsection (b) on any covered route shall expire at the end of that 270-day period.
(d)
Delaying expiration
If the covered passenger vessel described in subsection (c) that is qualified to engage in the coastwise trade has not begun the service described in such subsection within 270 days after the Secretary's notification, the expiration provided by subsection (c) is delayed until 90 days after such vessel begins that service.
(e)
Reinstatement of exemption
If the Secretary finds that the covered passenger vessel described in subsection (c) that is qualified to engage in the coastwise trade is no longer available for the service described in such subsection or any passenger service between a port in one State and a port in another State, or between 2 ports in the same State, the authority to transport passengers on any covered route under subsection (b) shall be reinstated.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The analysis for chapter 551 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
55124. Large cruise ships transporting passengers between ports in Alaska or between a port in Alaska and a port in Washington.
.
