1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Social Engagement and Network Initiatives for Older Relief Act
or the
SENIOR Act
.
2.
Screening older individuals for loneliness and coordination of supportive services and health care to address loneliness
Section 102(14)(N) of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3002(14)(N)
) is amended by inserting
and loneliness
after
social isolation
each place it appears.
3.
Report on loneliness
(a)
Preparation of report
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall, in carrying out activities under section 206(a) of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3017(a)
), prepare a report—
(A)
on programs authorized by such Act (
42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.
), and supported or funded by the Administration on Aging, that include a focus on addressing the negative health effects associated with loneliness through targeting older individuals identified as being in greatest social need, as appropriate; and
(B)
that examines the relationship between the strength of multigenerational family units and loneliness in older individuals.
(2)
Impact
Such report shall identify—
(A)
whether loneliness is being adequately addressed under the programs described in paragraph (1)(A), including, to the extent practicable—
(i)
the prevalence of loneliness across geographic areas;
(ii)
the negative physical and mental health effects associated with loneliness; and
(iii)
the role of preventive measures and services under this Act in addressing the negative health effects associated with loneliness among older individuals; and
(B)
public awareness of and efforts to address the negative health effects associated with loneliness.
(3)
Types of programs
Such report shall identify whether programs described in paragraph (1)(A)—
(A)
support projects in local communities and involve diverse sectors associated with such communities to decrease the negative health effects associated with loneliness among older individuals and caregivers;
(B)
support outreach activities to screen older individuals for negative health effects associated with loneliness; and
(C)
include a focus on decreasing the negative health effects associated with loneliness.
(4)
Recommendations
Such report shall, as appropriate, include—
(A)
recommendations for reducing the negative health effects associated with loneliness and to address any negative health effects identified under clauses (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph (A), and subparagraph (B), of paragraph (2); and
(B)
recommendations for policies or programs that foster strong and stable connections across different generations in a family.
(b)
Submission of report
(1)
Interim status report
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit an interim report, to the committees of the Senate and of the House of Representatives with jurisdiction over the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.
), and the Special Committee on Aging of the Senate, on the status of the evaluation underway to develop the final report required under this section.
(2)
Final report
Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a final report that meets the requirements of this section to the committees of the Senate and of the House of Representatives with jurisdiction over the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.
) and the Special Committee on Aging of the Senate.
(c)
Definitions
For purposes of this section, the terms
greatest social need
,
older individual
, and
Secretary
have the meanings given such terms in section 102 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3002
).
