1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Taxpayer-Funded Union Time Transparency Act
.
2.
Official time
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency; employee; labor organization
The terms
agency
,
employee
, and
labor organization
have the meanings given those terms in section 7103 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Section 7131
The term
section 7131
means section 7131 of title 5, United States Code.
(b)
Annual report
Not later than June 30 of each year that begins after the year in which this Act is enacted, the head of each agency shall submit to Congress, and post on the public website of the agency, a report that details the following for the year covered by the report:
(1)
The cost to the agency of official time authorized under section 7131.
(2)
A detailed explanation of the purpose for which the agency made each authorization of official time under section 7131.
(3)
With respect to each employee of the agency for whom official time was authorized under section 7131—
(A)
the position and annual rate of basic pay of the employee;
(B)
the total number of hours the employee spent on activities for which the official time was authorized; and
(C)
the percentage that the number of hours described in subparagraph (B) represented with respect to the total number of hours worked by the employee for the applicable year.
(4)
The number of hours for which the agency permitted labor organizations, or employees of the agency for whom official time was authorized under section 7311, to use agency property at no cost or at a discounted rate.
(5)
The total monetary value of the uses described in paragraph (4).
(6)
The amount of any reimbursement collected by the agency with respect to a use described in paragraph (4).
(7)
Any expenses paid by the agency for activities conducted by a labor organization or a private individual with respect to official time authorized by the agency under section 7131.
(8)
An explanation of any increase, as compared to the report submitted in the previous year, in the amount of official time authorized by the agency under section 7131.
