1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ensuring Peace Through Strength in Israel Act
.
2.
Ensuring peace through strength in Israel
(a)
Department of Defense assessment
Subsection (b) of section 1273 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2066) is amended to read as follows:
(b)
Department of Defense assessment of quantity of precision-Guided munitions and other munitions for use by Israel
(1)
In general
Not later than April 1, 2024, and annually thereafter through 2028, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an assessment with respect to the following:
(A)
The quantity and type of precision-guided munitions necessary for Israel to protect Israel and prevail in the event of a sustained armed confrontation between Israel and the Islamic Republic of Iran and the proxy forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran, including Hezbollah and Hamas.
(B)
The quantity and type of other munitions necessary for Israel to protect Israel and prevail in the event of a sustained armed confrontation between Israel and the Islamic Republic of Iran and the proxy forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran, including Hezbollah and Hamas.
(C)
The quantity and type of precision-guided munitions necessary for Israel to protect Israel and prevail in the event of a sustained armed confrontation between Israel and Hezbollah.
(D)
The quantity and type of precision-guided munitions necessary for Israel to protect Israel and prevail in the event of a sustained armed confrontation between Israel and any other armed group or terrorist organization, such as Hamas.
(E)
The resources the Government of Israel would need to dedicate to acquire the quantity and type of munitions described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
(F)
Whether, as of the date on which the applicable joint assessment is completed, sufficient quantities and types of munitions to conduct operations described in subparagraphs (A) through (D) are present in—
(i)
the inventory of the military forces of Israel;
(ii)
the War Reserves Stock Allies-Israel;
(iii)
any other United States stockpile or depot within the area of responsibility of United States Central Command, as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate to disclose to the Government of Israel; or
(iv)
the inventory of the United States Armed Forces, as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate to disclose to the Government of Israel.
(G)
United States planning—
(i)
to assist Israel to prepare for the contingencies described in subparagraphs (A) through (D); and
(ii)
to resupply Israel with the quantity and type of munitions described in subparagraphs (A) through (D) in the event of such a contingency.
(H)
The quantity and pace at which the United States is capable of pre-positioning, rapidly replenishing, or assisting in the rapid replenishment of stockpiles of such munitions in the inventory of the military forces of Israel and the War Reserves Stock Allies-Israel in preparation for, and to conduct, the operations described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
(2)
Consultation
In carrying out the assessment required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Government of Israel, provided that the Government of Israel agrees to be so consulted.
.
(b)
Report
Subsection (c) of such section is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading, by striking
Report
and inserting
Reports
;
(2)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in the paragraph heading, by striking
In general
and inserting
Department of Defense assessment
; and
(B)
by striking
the President
and inserting
the Secretary of Defense
;
(3)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4); and
(4)
by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph (2):
(2)
Inventory
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the report in paragraph (1) is submitted, and every 90 days thereafter through December 31, 2028, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the actions being taken and the progress made by the United States, since the date on which the preceding report under paragraph (1) was submitted, to pre-position and ensure that the inventory of the military forces of Israel and the War Reserves Stock Allies-Israel have sufficient quantities and types of munitions in preparation for, and to conduct, the operations described in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection (b)(1), including procedures implemented by the United States for rapidly replenishing, or assisting in the rapid replenishment of, stockpiles of such munitions for use by Israel as may be necessary.
.
