Section 1. Policy.

Over the past generation, our society has made tremendous progress in eradicating barriers to women's success. A record number of women are attending college and graduate school. Women make up a growing share of our workforce, and more women are corporate executives and business owners than ever before, helping boost the   economy and foster   competitiveness around the world.  , women are serving at the highest levels of all branches of our Government.

Despite this progress, certain inequalities continue to persist. On average,   women continue to earn only about 78 cents for every dollar men make, and women are still significantly underrepresented in the science, engineering, and technology fields. Far too many women lack health insurance, and many are unable to take time off to care for a new baby or an ailing family member. Violence against women and girls remains a global epidemic. The challenge of ensuring equal educational opportunities for women and girls endures. As the current economic crisis has swept across our  , women have been seriously affected.

These issues do not concern just women. When jobs do not offer family leave, that affects men who wish to help care for their families. When women earn less than men for the same work, that affects families who have to work harder to make ends meet. When our daughters do not have the same educational and career opportunities as our sons, that affects entire communities, our economy, and our future as a Nation.

The purpose of this order is to establish a coordinated Federal response to issues that particularly impact the lives of women and girls and to ensure that Federal programs and policies address and take into account the distinctive concerns of women and girls, including women of color and those with disabilities.

 . 2.  .

There is established within   of the President a  ).

(a)

Membership of the  .

The   shall consist of the following members:

(1) the Senior Advisor and Assistant to the President for   and  , who shall serve as  ;

(2) the Secretary of  ;

(3) the Secretary of the  ;

(4) the Secretary of  ;

(5) the Attorney General;

(6) the Secretary of the  ;

(7) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(8) the Secretary of  ;

(9) the Secretary of  ;

(10) the Secretary of  ;

(11) the Secretary of  ;

(12) the Secretary of  ;

(13) the Secretary of  ;

(14) the Secretary of  ;

(15) the Secretary of  ;

(16) the Secretary of  ;

(17) the Representative of   to  ;

(18)  ;

(19) the Director of  ;

(20) the Administrator of  ;

(21) the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;

(22) the Director of  ;

(23) the Administrator of  ;

(24) the Assistant to the President and Director of  ;

(25) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of  ; and

(26) the heads of such other executive branch departments, agencies, and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.

A member of the   may designate, to perform the   functions of the member, a senior-level official who is a part of the member's department, agency, or office, and who is a full-time officer or employee of  . At the direction of the  , the   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees under this section, as appropriate.

(b)

Administration of the  .

  shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. The   shall convene regular meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work. The   shall designate an Executive Director of the  , who shall coordinate the work of the   and head any staff assigned to the  .

 . 3. Mission and Functions of the  .

The   shall work across executive departments and agencies to provide a coordinated Federal response to issues that have a distinct impact on the lives of women and girls, including assisting women-owned businesses to compete internationally and working to increase the participation of women in the science, engineering, and technology workforce, and to ensure that Federal programs and policies adequately take those impacts into account. The   shall be responsible for providing recommendations to the President on the effects of pending legislation and executive branch policy proposals; for suggesting changes to Federal programs or policies to address issues of special importance to women and girls; for reviewing and recommending changes to policies that have a distinct impact on women in the Federal workforce; and for assisting in the development of legislative and policy proposals of special importance to women and girls. The functions of the   are advisory only.

 . 4. Outreach.

Consistent with the objectives set out in this order, the  , in accordance with applicable law, in addition to regular meetings, shall conduct outreach with representatives of nonprofit organizations,   and local government agencies, elected officials, and other interested persons that will assist with the  's development of a detailed set of recommendations.

 . 5. Federal Interagency Plan.

The   shall, within   of the date of this order, develop and submit to the President a Federal interagency plan with recommendations for interagency action consistent with the goals of this order. The   interagency plan shall include an assessment by each member executive department, agency, or office of the status and scope of its efforts to further the progress and advancement of women and girls. Such an assessment shall include a report on the status of any offices or programs that have been created to develop, implement, or monitor targeted initiatives concerning women or girls. The   interagency plan shall also include recommendations for issues, programs, or initiatives that should be further evaluated or studied by  . The   shall review and update the   interagency plan periodically, as appropriate, and shall present to the President any updated recommendations or findings.

 . 6.  .

(a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the  . Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expense for participating in the  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
