Section 1.

Establishment.

There is established   on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling (the "Commission").

 . 2.

Membership.

(a) The   shall be composed of not more than 7 members who shall be appointed by the President. The members shall be drawn from among distinguished individuals, and may include those with experience in or representing the scientific, engineering, and environmental communities, the oil and gas industry, or any other area determined by the President to be of value to the   in carrying out its duties.

(b) The President shall designate from among the   members two members to serve as  .

 . 3.

Mission.

The   shall:

(a) examine the relevant facts and circumstances concerning the root causes of the Deepwater   oil disaster;

(b) develop options for guarding against, and mitigating the impact of, oil spills associated with offshore drilling, taking into consideration the environmental, public health, and economic effects of such options, including options involving:

(1) improvements to Federal laws, regulations, and industry practices applicable to offshore drilling that would ensure effective oversight, monitoring, and response capabilities; protect public health and safety, occupational health and safety, and the environment and natural resources; and address affected communities; and

(2) organizational or other reforms of Federal agencies or processes necessary to ensure such improvements are implemented and maintained.

(c) submit a final public report to the President with its findings and options for consideration within   the  's first meeting.

 . 4.

Administration.

(a) The Commission shall hold public hearings and shall request information including relevant documents from  , and local officials, nongovernmental organizations, private entities, scientific institutions, industry and workforce representatives, communities, and others affected by the Deepwater   oil disaster, as necessary to carry out its mission.

(b) The heads of executive departments and agencies, to the extent permitted by law and consistent with their ongoing activities in response to the oil spill, shall provide the   such information and cooperation as it may require for purposes of carrying out its mission.

(c) In carrying out its mission, the   shall be informed by, and shall strive to avoid duplicating, the analyses and investigations undertaken by other governmental, nongovernmental, and independent entities.

(d) The   shall ensure that it does not interfere with or disrupt any ongoing or anticipated civil or criminal investigation or law enforcement activities or any effort to recover response costs or damages arising out of the Deepwater Horizon explosion, fire, and oil spill. The   shall consult with   concerning the  's activities to avoid any risk of such interference or disruption.

(e) The   shall have a staff, headed by an Executive Director.

(f) The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report.

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Energy shall provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary to carry out its mission.

(b) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by the Secretary of Energy in accordance with guidelines issued by  .

(c) Members of the   shall serve without any additional compensation for their work on the  , but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(d) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(1) authority granted by law to a department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(2) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(e) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
