1.
Short title
This Act may cited as the
Helping Heroes Fly Act
.
2.
Operations center
program for severely injured or disabled members of the Armed Forces and
severely injured or disabled veterans
(a)
In
general
Subchapter I of
chapter 449
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:
44927.
Expedited
screening for severely injured or disabled members of the Armed Forces and
severely injured or disabled veterans
(a)
Passenger
screening
The Assistant
Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, and organizations that advocate on behalf of members of the
Armed Forces and veterans, including organizations that advocate on behalf of
severely injured or disabled members of the Armed Forces and severely injured
or disabled veterans, shall develop and implement a process to provide
expedited passenger screening services for severely injured or disabled members
of the Armed Forces and severely injured or disabled veterans. Such process
shall be designed to protect the privacy of the individual being screened to
the maximum extent practicable.
(b)
Operations
center
As part of the process
required under subsection (a), the Assistant Secretary shall maintain an
operations center to provide support and facilitate the movement of severely
injured or disabled members of the Armed Forces and severely injured or
disabled veterans through screening prior to boarding a passenger aircraft
operated by an air carrier or foreign air carrier in air transportation or
intrastate air transportation. Such operations center shall be operational at
all times.
(c)
Protocols
The
Assistant Secretary shall—
(1)
establish and publish protocols, in
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
and organizations that advocate on behalf of members of the Armed Forces and
veterans, including organizations that advocate on behalf of severely injured
or disabled members of the Armed Forces and severely injured or disabled
veterans, under which a severely injured or disabled member of the Armed Forces
or severely injured or disabled veteran, or the family member or other
representative of such a member or veteran, may contact the operations center
maintained under subsection (b) and request expedited screening services
described in subsection (a) for the member or veteran; and
(2)
upon receipt of such a request, require
such operations center to notify the appropriate Federal security director of
the request to facilitate the expedited passenger screening services described
in subsection (a) for the member or veteran.
(d)
Training
The
Assistant Secretary shall integrate training on the protocols established under
subsection (c) into the training provided to new employees and recurrent
training for all employees who provide passenger screening services.
(e)
Report
Not
later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, and
annually thereafter, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to Congress a report
on the implementation of this section. Each such report shall include each of
the following:
(1)
Information on the
training provided under subsection (d).
(2)
Information on the consultations between
the Assistant Secretary and organizations that advocate on behalf of members of
the Armed Forces and veterans as described in subsection (a).
(3)
The number of
people who accessed the operations center during the period covered by the
report.
(4)
Such other
information as the Assistant Secretary determines is
appropriate.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter
is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 44926 following new
item:
44927. Expedited screening for severely
injured or disabled members of the Armed Forces and severely injured or
disabled
veterans.
.
