1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Saving
America’s Pollinators Act of 2013
.
2.
Findings
(1)
Pollination
services are a vital part of agricultural production, valued at over
$125,000,000,000 globally and worth $20,000,000,000 to $30,000,000,000 in
agricultural production annually in the United States.
(2)
One-third of food
produced in North America depends on pollination by honey bees, including
nearly 95 varieties of fruits such as almonds, avocados, cranberries, and
apples.
(3)
Over the past
several years, documented incidents of colony collapse disorder have been at a
record high, with some beekeepers repeatedly losing 100 percent of their
operations.
(4)
During the winter beginning in 2012 and
ending in 2013, United States beekeepers, on average, lost 45.1 percent of the
colonies they operate.
(5)
According to scientists of the Department
of Agriculture, current estimates of the survivorship of honey bee colonies
show they are too low to be able to meet the pollination demands of United
States agricultural crops.
(6)
Scientists have
linked the use of systemic neonicotinoid insecticides to the rapid decline of
pollinators and to the deterioration of pollinator health.
(7)
Neonicotinoids
cause sublethal effects including impaired foraging and feeding behavior,
disorientation, weakened immunity, delayed larval development, and increased
susceptibility to viruses, diseases, and parasites and numerous studies have
also demonstrated acute, lethal effects from the application of neonicotinoid
insecticides.
(8)
Recent science has
demonstrated that a single corn kernel coated with a neonicotinoid is toxic
enough to kill a songbird.
(9)
In June 2013, over
50,000 bumblebees were killed as a direct result of exposure to a neonicotinoid
applied to Linden trees for cosmetic purposes.
(10)
In January 2013,
the European Food Safety Authority determined that the most widely used
neonicotinoids pose unacceptable hazards to bees, prompting the European Union
to suspend their use on agricultural crops.
3.
Urgent regulatory
response for honey bee and pollinator protection
(a)
In
general
Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency shall suspend the registration of imidacloprid,
clothianidin, thiamethoxam, dinotafuran, and any other members of the nitro
group of neonicotinoid insecticides to the extent such insecticide is
registered, conditionally or otherwise, under the Federal Insecticide,
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (
7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.
) for use in seed
treatment, soil application, or foliar treatment on bee attractive plants,
trees, and cereals until the Administrator has made a determination that such
insecticide will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on pollinators based
on—
(1)
an evaluation of the published and
peer-reviewed scientific evidence on whether the use or uses of such
neonicotinoids cause unreasonable adverse effects on pollinators, including
native bees, honey bees, birds, bats, and other species of beneficial insects;
and
(2)
a completed field study that meets the
criteria required by the Administrator and evaluates residues, including
residue build-up after repeated annual application, chronic low-dose exposure,
cumulative effects of multiple chemical exposures, and any other protocol
determined to be necessary by the Administrator to protect managed and native
pollinators.
(b)
Conditions on
certain pesticides registrations
Notwithstanding section 3 of the Federal
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (
7 U.S.C. 136a
), for purposes of
the protection of honey bees, other pollinators, and beneficial insects, the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall not issue any new
registrations, conditional or otherwise, for any seed treatment, soil
application, and foliar treatment on bee attractive plants, trees, and cereals
under such Act until the Administrator has made the determination described in
subsection (a), based on an evaluation described in subsection (a)(1) and a
completed field study described in subsection (a)(2), with respect to such
insecticide.
(c)
Monitoring of
native bees
The Secretary of
the Interior, in coordination with the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency, shall, for purposes of protecting and ensuring the long-term
viability of native bees and other pollinators of agricultural crops,
horticultural plants, wild plants, and other plants—
(1)
regularly monitor the health and population
status of native bees, including the status of native bees in agricultural and
non-agricultural habitats and areas of ornamental plants, residential areas,
and landscaped areas;
(2)
identify the scope and likely causes of
unusual native bee mortality; and
(3)
beginning not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act and each year thereafter, submit to Congress,
and make available to the public, a report on such health and population
status.
