1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Dry Cask Storage Act
.
2.
Dry cask spent nuclear fuel storage
(a)
Required designation
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall establish a procedure to require designation of spent nuclear fuel contained in storage pools as qualified to be placed in dry cask storage when the fuel has cooled sufficiently to permit such storage method.
(b)
Fuel currently in pools
As soon as practicable, but not later than 15 years after the date of enactment of this Act, all spent nuclear fuel that is contained in storage pools as of such date of enactment and qualified to be placed in dry cask storage shall be moved to dry casks certified by the Commission.
(c)
Disposition
Except as provided in subsection (b), not later than 1 year after fuel is designated by the Commission pursuant to subsection (a) as qualified to be placed in dry cask storage—
(1)
such fuel shall be moved from storage pools and placed in certified dry casks; and
(2)
such casks shall, to the extent the Commission considers appropriate after conducting a cost-benefit analysis, be stored temporarily in hardened onsite storage facilities.
(d)
Costs of compliance
The Secretary of Energy shall determine the costs required for compliance with subsection (b) or (c) by the owner of spent nuclear fuel, and shall reduce by that amount the amount due from that owner pursuant to section 302 of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (
42 U.S.C. 10222
).
(e)
Annual status reports
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall require each facility storing spent nuclear fuel to submit to the Commission an annual report describing—
(1)
the total amount of spent fuel stored onsite, whether in storage pools, dry casks, hardened onsite storage facilities, or some other storage method;
(2)
how much of the fuel is stored using each method of storage; and
(3)
how much of the fuel has been moved from one storage method or location to another during the past year.
(f)
Regulations
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall issue regulations for carrying out this Act.
