1.
Cooperative agreements under Sikes Act for land management related to Department of Defense
readiness activities
(a)
Multiyear agreements To fund long-Term management
Subsection (b) of section 103A of the Sikes Act (
16 U.S.C. 670c–1
) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
before
Funds
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
In the case of a cooperative agreement under subsection (a)(2), funds referred to in paragraph (1)—
(A)
may be paid in a lump sum and include an amount intended to cover the future costs of the natural
resource maintenance and improvement activities provided for under the
agreement;
(B)
may be invested by the recipient in accordance with the recipient’s own guidelines for the
management and investment of financial assets, and any interest or income
derived from such investment may be applied for the same purposes as the
principal; and
(C)
may be used only for payment of—
(i)
direct costs of maintenance and improvement of natural resources on the lands within the scope of
the agreement; and
(ii)
indirect and administrative costs, as determined in accordance with official guidance issued by the
Office of Management and Budget, but not to exceed 10 percent of the total
cost of the project.
.
(b)
Availability of funds and relation to other laws
Subsection (c) of such section is amended to read as follows:
(c)
Availability of funds and relation to other laws
(1)
Cooperative agreements and interagency agreements entered into under this section shall be subject
to the availability of funds.
(2)
Notwithstanding
chapter 63
of title 31, United States Code, a cooperative agreement under this
section may be used to acquire property or services for the direct benefit
or use of the United States Government.
(3)
Amounts available to the Department of Defense may not be used under this Act to acquire fee title
interest in real property for natural resources projects that are not on a
military installation.
.
(c)
Audit
The Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall conduct an audit of the natural resources
projects funded with amounts available to the Department of Defense under
the Sikes Act, as amended by this section, that is not on a military
installation. Not later than October 1, 2018, the Inspector General shall
submit to Congress a report on the audit conducted under this subsection.
(d)
Sunset
This section and the provisions of law enacted by the amendments made by this section shall expire
on October 1, 2019, except that any cooperative agreement referred to in
such provisions that is entered into on or before September 30, 2019,
shall continue according to its terms and conditions as if this section
has not expired.
