1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of Energy Forrestal Complex Redevelopment Act of 2014
.
2.
Department of Energy Forrestal Complex Redevelopment
(a)
In general
The Administrator of General Services shall take action, in accordance with the authority available to the Administrator under Federal law, to redevelop the Department of Energy Forrestal Complex in a manner that is consistent with the SW Ecodistrict Plan.
(b)
Agreements
Any agreement entered into by the Administrator to carry out the redevelopment of the Department of Energy Forrestal Complex under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
include such terms and conditions as the Administrator considers necessary and appropriate to protect the interests of the United States; and
(2)
facilitate the redevelopment of Maryland Avenue, Southwest, in the District of Columbia in a manner that is consistent with—
(A)
the SW Ecodistrict Plan; and
(B)
the Maryland Avenue Southwest Plan, including the reconstruction of Maryland Avenue, Southwest, as a multimodal corridor.
(c)
Relocation of existing tenants
The Administrator may provide, notwithstanding
section 3307
of title 40, United States Code, and otherwise in accordance with existing authorities available to the Administrator, replacement space for Federal agency tenants in the Department of Energy Forrestal Complex whose relocation is made necessary by the redevelopment of such Complex under subsection (a).
(d)
Reporting requirements and period for review
(1)
In general
Before entering into any agreement related to the redevelopment of the Department of Energy Forrestal Complex, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report with respect to the proposed agreement.
(2)
Contents
A report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include a summary of a cost-benefit analysis of the proposed agreement and a description of the material provisions of the proposed agreement.
(3)
Period for review
The Administrator may not enter into a proposed agreement related to the redevelopment of the Department of Energy Forrestal Complex until the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the Administrator submits under paragraph (1) the report with respect to the proposed agreement.
(e)
Definitions
In this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Department of Energy Forrestal Complex
The term
Department of Energy Forrestal Complex
means the land, including the buildings and other improvements thereon, that—
(A)
subject to survey and as determined by the Administrator, is—
(i)
located in the District of Columbia;
(ii)
generally bounded by Independence Avenue, Southwest, 12th Street, Southwest, Maryland Avenue, Southwest, and 9th Street, Southwest; and
(iii)
generally consisting of Squares 351–N, 351, 383, 384, and 385 and portions of Squares 325 and 352; and
(B)
is under the jurisdiction and control of the General Services Administration.
(2)
Maryland Avenue Southwest Plan
The term
Maryland Avenue Southwest Plan
means the plan prepared for the District of Columbia Office of Planning titled
Maryland Avenue Southwest Plan: Washington, DC
and dated April 2012.
(3)
SW Ecodistrict Plan
The term
SW Ecodistrict Plan
means the plan of the National Capital Planning Commission titled
The SW Ecodistrict: A Vision Plan For A More Sustainable Future
and dated January 2013.
