1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of Justice Global Advisory
Committee Authorization Act of 2013
.
2.
Global Justice
Information Sharing Initiative Advisory Committee
(a)
Definition
In
this Act, the term
Committee
means the Global Justice Information
Sharing Initiative (Global) Advisory Committee established by the Attorney
General.
(b)
Authorization
Notwithstanding
section 14(a)(2)
of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), the
Committee shall not terminate unless terminated by an Act of Congress. The
Attorney General is authorized to provide technical and financial assistance
and support services to the Committee to carry out the activities of the
Committee, including the activities described in subsection (c).
(c)
Activities
In
addition to any activities assigned to the Committee by the Attorney General,
the Committee shall—
(1)
gather views from
agencies of local, State, and tribal governments and the Federal Government and
other entities that work to support public safety and justice;
(2)
recommend to the
Attorney General measures to improve the administration of justice and protect
the public by promoting practices and technologies for database
interoperability and the secure sharing of justice and public safety
information between local, State, and tribal governments and the Federal
Government; and
(3)
submit to Congress
an annual report regarding issues considered by the Committee and
recommendations made to the Attorney General by the Committee.
(d)
Sense of
Congress
It is the sense of Congress that local, State, and
tribal governments and other relevant entities should use the recommendations
developed and disseminated by the Committee in accordance with this Act to
evaluate, improve, and develop effective strategies and technologies to improve
public safety and information sharing.
(e)
Information from
DOJ funding applicants
(1)
In
general
Beginning on the date
that is one year from the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General
shall require that any applicant for a funding solicitation from the Department
of Justice for the implementation of an information sharing solution shall
include within the application for such funding—
(A)
how the
information sharing solution would comply with applicable standards endorsed by
the Committee; or
(B)
in the case that
such information sharing solution would not comply with such standards, the
reason for such non-compliance.
(2)
Information not
to affect award decisions
Information provided by an applicant
pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not affect any decision for making an award to
such applicant for the implementation of an information sharing solution unless
the agency making such award specifically requires use of applicable endorsed
standards or specifications as a condition for accepting such award.
(3)
Regulations
The
Attorney General is authorized to issue such regulations as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this subsection.
3.
Report of the
Attorney General on information sharing between corrections agencies, law
enforcement agencies, and the interstate commission for adult offender
supervision
(a)
Review
The
Attorney General, based on input from local, State, and tribal governments
through the Committee and other components of the Department of Justice, shall
review the state of information sharing between corrections and law enforcement
agencies of local, State, and tribal governments and of the Federal
Government.
(b)
Contents
The
review by the Attorney General under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
identify policy
and technical barriers to effective information sharing;
(2)
identify best
practices for effective information sharing; and
(3)
assess ways for
information sharing to improve the awareness and safety of law enforcement and
corrections officials, including information sharing by the Interstate
Commission for Adult Offenders Supervision.
(c)
Report
Not
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General
shall submit to Congress a report regarding the review under this section,
including a discussion of the recommendations of the Committee and the efforts
of the Department of Justice to address the recommendations.
