1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Opportunity Village Conveyance and Expansion Act of 2014
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Site
The term
Deer Springs/Thom/Rome/North Decatur Site
means the approximately 17.49 acres leased to the City under the Recreation and Public Purposes
Act
and approximately 9.45 acres patented to the City under the Recreation and
Public Purposes Act generally depicted as the
Deer Springs/Thom/Rome/North Decatur Site
on the map titled
Opportunity Village Conveyance and Expansion Act
and dated _____.
(2)
City
The term
City
means the city of Las Vegas, Nevada.
(3)
Opportunity village
The term
Opportunity Village
means Opportunity Village, a nonprofit organization described under section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the principal place of business of which is
at 6050 South Buffalo Drive, Las Vegas, Nevada.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
3.
Land conveyance
(a)
Acceptance
The Secretary may accept the relinquishment by the City of all or part of the Deer
Springs/Thom/Rome/North Decatur Site for conveyance to Opportunity
Village, if the City—
(1)
prepares a survey and legal description of the Deer Springs/Thom/Rome/North Decatur Site; and
(2)
the survey prepared under paragraph (1) conforms to the Bureau of Land Management cadastral survey
standards and meets the approval of the Secretary.
(b)
Conveyance for certain uses
Not later than 180 days after a request by Opportunity Village, the Secretary shall convey to
Opportunity Village, subject to valid existing rights, all portions of the
Deer Springs/Thom/Rome/North Decatur Site relinquished to the Secretary by
the City under subsection (a). Land conveyed to Opportunity Village under
this subsection shall be used only for the following:
(1)
The development of a nonprofit work center and affordable housing for people with intellectual
disabilities.
(2)
Ancillary use compatible with the mission of Opportunity Village.
(c)
Transaction costs
All land conveyed by the Secretary under this Act shall be at no cost, except that the Secretary
may require the recipient to bear any costs associated with transfer of
title and any necessary land surveys.
(d)
Reversion
Any portion of the land conveyed pursuant to this Act that ceases to be used for the purposes
specified in subsection (b) shall, at the discretion of the Secretary,
revert to the United States, along with any improvements thereon or
thereto.
