1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Visa Waiver for Israel Act of
2013
.
2.
Israel designated
as a program country for visa waiver program
(a)
In
general
Beginning on the date
described in subsection (c), Israel shall be deemed a program country for
purposes of section 217 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1187).
(b)
Exemption from
application of certain requirements
In the case of Israel, section 217(c)(2)(A)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1187(c)(2)(A)
) does not
apply.
(c)
Effective date;
compliance requirements
The
date described in this subsection is the date that the Secretary of Homeland
Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines that Israel
has complied with the following:
(1)
The government of Israel has entered into
an agreement with the Government of the United States to report, or make
available through Interpol or other means as designated by the Secretary of
Homeland Security, to the United States Government information about the theft
or loss of passports within a strict time limit and in a manner specified in
the agreement.
(2)
The government of Israel has entered into
an agreement with the Government of the United States to share information
regarding whether citizens and nationals of Israel traveling to the United
States represent a threat to the security or welfare of the United
States.
(3)
The government of Israel cooperates with
the Government of the United States on counterterrorism initiatives,
information sharing, and preventing terrorist travel, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security and the Secretary of State determine that such cooperation
will continue.
(4)
The government of Israel issues all new and
reissued passports with biometric identifiers as described in section 303 of
the Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry Reform Act of 2002 (8 U.S.C.
1732).
(5)
The government of Israel has made every
reasonable effort, without jeopardizing the security of the State of Israel, to
ensure that reciprocal privileges are extended to all United States
citizens.
