1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Restore Opportunity, Strengthen, and Improve the Economy Act
.
2.
Findings and purposes
(a)
Findings
The Congress of the United States finds the following:
(1)
The disappearance of good jobs, the shrinking of the middle class, and growing income inequality
are the greatest domestic challenges confronting the Nation.
(2)
The United States Government is the largest purchaser of goods and services in the Nation’s
private-sector economy, spending over $1.5 trillion dollars annually at
firms that employ a quarter of American workers.
(3)
(A)
Federal purchasing power is currently creating millions of poverty-level jobs, subsidizing labor
law-breakers, and funding ballooning executive compensation.
(B)
The Federal Government is the Nation’s leading creator of low-wage jobs in the private sector,
funding more than 2,000,000 jobs paying under $12 per hour.
(C)
The Federal Government awards taxpayer dollars to a substantial number of firms that violate
Federal labor, employment, and occupational safety laws.
(D)
Federal Government purchasing subsidizes the excessive salaries of private-sector executives who do
business with the American people.
(4)
When Federal purchasing power is used in such a manner, workers have less to spend on the
necessities of life and are forced to rely on public assistance. Lack of
working purchasing power hurts job creation and undermines economic
growth, ultimately imposing significant costs on American taxpayers.
(5)
(A)
Federal purchasing power should be used to create good jobs, rebuild the middle class, and curb
rising income inequality.
(B)
Federal purchasing power should be used to create good jobs for America. Good jobs allow workers
and their families to live in dignity without relying on public assistance
or private charity. Good jobs pay enough to provide for subsistence,
health care, education, housing, and savings, as well as enough disposable
income to allow workers to enjoy quality time off with their loved ones.
(C)
Federal purchasing power should be used to rebuild the middle class. A strong middle class
stimulates the economy by increasing consumer spending and job growth.
(D)
Federal purchasing power should be used to narrow the growing gulf between the richest one percent
of the population and ordinary working families that is threatening the
survival of participatory democracy.
(b)
Purposes
The purposes of this Act are the following:
(1)
To use Federal purchasing power to incentivize private-sector firms.
(2)
To create good jobs for America’s workers.
(3)
To rebuild America’s middle class.
(4)
To address America’s crisis of income inequality.
(5)
To invigorate the economy by increasing the purchasing power of working Americans.
3.
Good jobs model employer standards
For purposes of this Act, a Good Jobs Model Employer is one which meets the following standards:
(1)
Respects employees’ rights to bargain collectively with their employers without being forced to
take strike action to win better wages and working conditions.
(2)
Offers to each employee living wages, decent benefits including health care, paid leave for
sickness and caregiving, and fair work schedules that are predictable and
stable.
(3)
Affirmatively demonstrates an exemplary standard of compliance with workplace protection laws,
including laws governing labor relations, wages and hours, and health and
safety, as well as other applicable labor laws.
(4)
Limits executive compensation to 50 times the median salary paid to the company’s workers.
(5)
Employs a workforce not less than 35 percent of which reside within one or more Historically
Underutilized Business Zones.
(6)
Subcontracts only with other Good Jobs Model Employers.
4.
Application to Federal contracts and assistance
(a)
Eligibility for award of procurement contracts
In the award of a contract for the acquisition of supplies or services, an executive agency may not
award the contract to a source that is not a Good Jobs Model Employer,
unless there is no offer from a source that is a Good Jobs Model Employer.
(b)
Eligibility for award of financial and nonfinancial assistance
An executive agency may not provide other forms of financial or nonfinancial assistance to entities
that are not model employers when there is a similarly situated Good Jobs
Model Employer that could receive the assistance, unless doing so would
substantially undermine the value of the assistance to the public good.
(c)
Incorporation into future Federal contracts and assistance agreements
Beginning on January 1, 2015, executive agencies shall incorporate into each new contract,
contract-like instrument, or assistance agreement a clause requiring the
contractor or recipient to conduct itself as a Good Jobs Model Employer
for the duration of the contract.
(d)
Exclusions
None of the provisions of this section shall be interpreted to apply to—
(1)
direct Federal statutory entitlements;
(2)
mandatory awards;
(3)
direct awards to foreign governments or public international organizations;
(4)
benefits to an individual as a personal entitlement; or
(5)
Federal employment.
5.
Implementation
(a)
Good jobs model employer standards
The Secretary of Labor shall promulgate regulations implementing the Good Jobs Model Employer
Standards of section 3(a) so as to effect the policy and purposes of this
Act within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act. The Secretary
of Labor shall amend these regulations as necessary so that they continue
to effect the policy and purposes of this Act.
(b)
Procurement policy
The Administrator of General Services, the Secretary of Defense, and the Administrator of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, in coordination with the
Office of Federal Procurement Policy, shall amend the Federal Acquisition
Regulation within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act to
effect the policy and purposes of this Act, and subsequently as necessary
to continue to effect the policy and purposes of this Act.
(c)
Debarment or suspension
(1)
An organization which acquires any form of financial or nonfinancial benefit or a contract from an
executive agency through the operation of the procedure described in
section 4 shall be placed on the Excluded Parties List enacted by
Executive Orders 12549 and 12689 for a period of at least 2 years if it
fails to remain a model employer for the duration of the benefit.
(2)
An organization which violates a Good Job Model Employer clause in a contract or agreement required
by section 4(c) shall be placed on the Excluded Parties List enacted by
Executive Orders 12549 and 12689 for a period of 3 years.
(3)
Parties which are suspended multiple times may be debarred permanently.
6.
Severability
If any provision of this Act, or applying such provision to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remainder of this Act and the application of the
provisions of such to any person or circumstance shall not be affected
thereby.
