1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Military Separation Pay Fairness Act of 2014
.
2.
Full separation pay for former members of the Armed Forces who were separated under former Don't
Ask, Don't Tell Policy
(a)
Identification of affected members
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
identify each former member of the Armed Forces who was separated from the Armed Forces for
violation of the policy expressed in subsection (b) of section 654 of
title 10, United States Code, as in effect before the effective date of
the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 (
Public Law 111–321
; 124
Stat. 3516); and
(2)
determine, for each member so identified, whether the member was paid the full amount of the
separation pay to which the member should have been entitled under section
1174 of such title or was paid a reduced amount of separation pay because
of homosexuality, pursuant to paragraph 3.2.3.1.4 of Department of Defense
Instruction No. 1332.29, as in effect at the time of the separation of the
member.
(b)
Payment of full amount
Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense makes a determination under
subsection (a)(2) that a former member of the Armed Forces was not paid
the full amount of the separation pay to which the member should have been
entitled under
section 1174
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary
shall pay to the member (or to the estate of the member if the member is
deceased) an amount equal to—
(1)
the amount of the difference between the full amount of the separation pay that the member should
have been paid under such section and the amount of separation pay
actually paid to the member; and
(2)
interest on the amount determined under paragraph (1) as provided in section 1035(b) of such title.
(c)
Exclusion of certain members
Former members of the Armed Forces who joined the class-action settlement in Collins v. United
States (Case No. 10–778c) are not entitled to additional payment under
subsection (b)(1), but are entitled
to interest as provided by subsection (b)(2).
(d)
Source of funds for payments
The Secretary of Defense shall make the payments required by subsection (b) using amounts
appropriated for the payment of separation pay to members of the Armed
Forces under
section 1174
of title 10, United States Code.
