1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Open Our Democracy Act of 2014
.
2.
Election of Members of House of Representatives Through Open Primaries
(a)
Rules for Election of House Members
A candidate for election for the office of Member of the House of Representatives shall be elected
to such office pursuant to the following elections held by the State in
which the candidate seeks election:
(1)
A single open primary election for such office held in accordance with subsection (b).
(2)
A single general election for such office held in accordance with subsection (c).
(b)
Open Primaries
Each State shall hold a single open primary election for each office of Member of the House of
Representatives in the State under which—
(1)
each candidate for such office, regardless of the candidate’s political party preference, shall
appear on a single ballot; and
(2)
each voter in the State who is eligible to vote in elections for Federal office in the
Congressional district involved may cast a ballot in the election,
regardless of the voter’s political party preference.
(c)
General Election
Each State shall hold a general election for each office of Member of the House of Representatives
in the State under which the 2 candidates receiving the greatest number of
votes in the single open primary election for such office (as described in
subsection (b)), without regard to the political party preference of such
candidates, shall be the only candidates appearing on the ballot.
3.
Ability of candidates to disclose political party preferences
(a)
Option of Candidates To Declare Political Party Preference
At the time a candidate for the office of Member of the House of Representatives files to run for
such office, the candidate shall have the option of declaring a political
party preference, and the preference chosen (if any) shall accompany the
candidate’s name on the ballot for the election for such office.
(b)
Designation for Candidates Not Declaring Preference
If a candidate does not declare a political party preference under subsection (a), the designation
No Party Preference
shall accompany the candidate’s name on the ballot for the election for such office.
(c)
No Party Endorsement Implied
The selection of a party preference by a candidate under subsection (a) shall not constitute or
imply endorsement of the candidate by the party designated, and no
candidate in a general election shall be deemed the official candidate of
any party by virtue of his or her selection in the primary.
4.
Protection of Rights of Political Parties
Nothing in this Act shall restrict the right of individuals to join or organize into political
parties or in any way restrict the right of private association of
political parties. Nothing in this Act shall restrict a party’s right to
contribute to, endorse, or otherwise support a candidate for the office of
Member of the House of Representatives. A political party may establish
such procedures as it sees fit to endorse or support candidates or
otherwise participate in all elections, and may informally designate
candidates for election to such an office at a party convention or by
whatever lawful mechanism the party may choose, other than pursuant to a
primary election held by a State. A political party may also adopt such
rules as it sees fit for the selection of party officials (including
central committee members, presidential electors, and party officers),
including rules restricting participation in elections for party officials
to those who disclose a preference for that party at the time of
registering to vote.
5.
Treatment of election day in same manner as legal public holiday for purposes of Federal employment
(a)
In General
For purposes of any law relating to Federal employment, the Tuesday next after the first Monday in
November in 2016 and each even-numbered year thereafter shall be treated
in the same manner as a legal public holiday described in section 6103 of
title 5, United States Code.
(b)
Sense of Congress regarding treatment of day by private employers
It is the sense of Congress that private employers in the United States should give their employees
a day off on the Tuesday next after the first Monday in November in 2016
and each even-numbered year thereafter to enable the employees to cast
votes in the elections held on that day.
6.
Study of national standards and criteria for Congressional redistricting
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General shall conduct a study of the feasibility and desirability of enacting
national standards and criteria for Congressional redistricting.
(b)
Report to Congress
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall
submit a report to Congress on the study conducted under subsection (a).
7.5
Before January 1, 1999.
 7.75
January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
 7.9
January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
 7.55
After January 11, 2003.
7.
Member defined
In this Act, the term
Member of the House of Representatives
included a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress.
8.
Effective date
Except as provided in sections 5(a) and 6(b), this Act shall apply with respect to elections
occurring during 2016 or any succeeding year.
