1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Widening Internet Readiness for Employment Development Act
or the
WIRED Act
.
2.
Online provision of one-stop services
(a)
Online provision of one-Stop services
Section 134(c)(2) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2864(c)(2)) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
; and
;
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
to the extent that each of the programs, services, and activities described in paragraph (1) can be
made accessible through an Internet website, shall make such services
accessible on such a website that—
(i)
is unique to the particular one-stop delivery system; and
(ii)
meets the standards and incorporates the best practices established by the Secretary pursuant
section 121(g).
.
(b)
Standards and best practices for online provision of services by one-Stop delivery systems
Section 121 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2841) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
(g)
Standards and best practices for online provision of services
After soliciting public comments and consulting with and receiving input from relevant parties,
including State workforce investment boards, the Secretary shall establish
and maintain standards and best practices for Internet websites maintained
by one-stop delivery systems as required by section 134(c)(2)(C), and for
the provision of services through such websites. Such standards and best
practices shall include—
(1)
a requirement for a user-friendly, up-to-date website available to all dislocated workers;
(2)
a requirement that the website prominently display the address and hours of operation of all
physical one-stop centers in the local area, and a description of services
provided in and events held at each such center;
(3)
best practices for providing, through the website, services such as resume assistance, cover letter
review, job searching, interview preparations, and online
employment-related practice tests, through videos, video-conferencing, or
other means;
(4)
best practices for assuring a secure network and the protection of any personal information;
(5)
best practices for incorporating social media and networking capabilities into the website; and
(6)
best practices for making such websites accessible by mobile devices to the extent practicable.
.
(c)
Deadline
The Secretary of Labor shall establish the initial standards and best practices required by section
121(g) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (as added by subsection
(b))
not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
