1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Learning Opportunities With Creation of Open Source Textbooks (LOW COST) Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
According to the College Board, that the average student at a 4-year university spent an estimated
$1,222 per year on college books and supplies.
(2)
According to the National Association of College Stores, the gross margin on new college textbooks
was 25.6 percent in 2012.
(3)
The Government Accountability Office has found that college textbook prices have risen at twice the
rate of annual inflation over the last two decades and that new textbook
prices increased 82 percent over the last decade.
(4)
An open source material project that would make high quality educational materials freely available
to the general public would reduce college textbook costs and increase
accessibility to such education materials.
(5)
College-level open source course work materials in math, physics, and chemistry represent a
high-priority first step in this area.
(6)
The scientific and technical workforce at Federal agencies, national laboratories, and federally
funded research and development centers could make a valuable contribution
to this effort.
(7)
A Federal oversight role in the creation and maintenance of standard, publicly vetted textbooks is
desirable to ensure that intellectual property is respected and that
public standards for quality, educational effectiveness, and scientific
accuracy are maintained.
3.
Open source material pilot program
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall begin development
of college freshman-level, high quality, open source materials that—
(1)
contain, at minimum, a comprehensive set of textbooks or other educational materials covering
topics in physics, chemistry, and calculus;
(2)
are posted on the Federal Open Source Material Website; and
(3)
are free of copyright violations.
(b)
Posting deadline
Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall have posted the
materials described in subsection (a) on the Federal Open Source Material
Website.
(c)
Screening procedures
Before publishing materials on the Federal Open Source Material Website, the Director shall, in
collaboration with the agencies described in section 5(b), develop,
implement, and establish procedures for checking the veracity, accuracy,
and educational effectiveness of open source materials.
4.
Federal Open Source Material Website
(a)
Establishment
The Director shall establish and maintain a Federal Open Source Material Website.
(b)
Availability of materials
Materials in the Federal Open Source Material Website shall be made available free of charge to,
and may be downloaded, redistributed, changed, revised, or otherwise
altered by, any member of the general public.
5.
Open source material requirement for Federal agencies
(a)
Requirement
The head of each agency described in subsection (b) shall, under the guidance of the Director,
collaborate with the heads of any other such agency or any federally
funded research and development center to develop, implement, and
establish procedures for checking the veracity, accuracy, and educational
effectiveness of open source materials that are posted on the Federal Open
Source Material Website.
(b)
Agency funding
The head of each agency that expends more than $10,000,000 in a fiscal year on scientific education
or scientific outreach shall use at least 2 percent of such funds for
collaboration described in subsection (a).
6.
Regulations
The Director shall prescribe regulations necessary to implement this Act, including redistribution
and attribution standards for open source materials produced under this
Act.
7.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the National Science Foundation.
(2)
Federal open source material website
The term
Federal Open Source Material Website
means the website established under section 4(a).
(3)
High quality
The term
high quality
means—
(A)
tested for optimal student engagement;
(B)
tested for optimal content consumption;
(C)
subjected to an editorial peer review process; and
(D)
free of copyright violations.
(4)
Open source materials
The term
open source materials
means materials that are posted on a website that are available free of charge to, and may be
downloaded, redistributed changed, revised, or otherwise altered by, any
member of the general public.
8.
GAO report to Congress
Not later than July 1, 2018, the Comptroller General shall prepare and submit a report to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
Representatives detailing—
(1)
the open source materials created or adapted under this Act;
(2)
the adoption of such open source materials; and
(3)
the savings generated for students, States, and the Federal Government through the use of open
source materials.
