1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Financial Crisis Criminal
Investigation Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Federal Bureau
of Investigation (FBI) has testified that
today’s financial crisis
dwarves the S&L crisis as financial institutions have reduced their assets
by more than $1 trillion related to the current global financial crisis
compared to the estimated $160 million lost during the S&L crisis.
(Testimony by Mr. John Pistole, Deputy Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation of the United States Department of Justice before the U.S. Senate
Committee on the Judiciary, February 11, 2009).
(2)
The FBI has
testified that mortgage fraud was such a major contributor to the current
global financial crisis that:
it would be irresponsible to neglect
mortgage fraud’s impact on the U.S. housing and financial
markets
.
(3)
In the late 1980s
and early 1990s, the United States experienced a similar financial crisis with
the collapse of the Savings and Loan institutions. Again, according to Deputy
Director Pistole,
the Department of Justice (DOJ), [and more
specifically the FBI], were provided a number of tools through the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) and Crime
Control Act of 1990 (CCA) to combat the aforementioned crisis. As stated in
Senate Bill 331 dated January 27, 2009,
in the wake of the Savings and
Loan crisis of the 1980s, a series of strike forces based in 27 cities was
staffed with 1,000 FBI agents and forensic experts and dozens of Federal
prosecutors
.
.
(4)
Fraud also played a decisive role in the
Savings and Loan crisis. The FBI and Justice Department made prosecuting those
elite frauds among its highest priorities. This took a massive commitment of
FBI resources, but it produced the most successful prosecution of an epidemic
of elite fraud in history—over 1,000
priority
felony convictions
of senior insiders, according to Professor William K. Black in his book
The Best Way to Rob a Bank is to Own One
.
(5)
However, the FBI, because of its crippling
personnel limitations, has been unable to assign sufficient FBI agents assigned
to investigate the current global financial crisis. The FBI identified the
mortgage fraud
epidemic
in congressional testimony in September
2004. It had so few white-collar crime specialists available, however, that it
was able to assign only 120 special agents to mortgage fraud cases—less than
one-eighth the agents it found essential to respond adequately to the huge, but
far smaller, Savings and Loan crisis.
(6)
Given the
magnitude of the financial crisis of 2008 and the resulting losses and billions
of taxpayer dollars spent to keep the financial system from collapsing, the FBI
should have no less than 1,000 agents to address corporate, securities, and
mortgage fraud located across the country, and, in addition, more forensic
experts and Federal prosecutors to uncover the crimes committed and bring the
perpetrators to justice.
(7)
This authorization
is expected to bring the FBI and prosecutorial staffing to the necessary levels
to investigate complex financial crimes and prosecute those who have committed
these crimes.
3.
Allowable use of
funds
The funds authorized in
this Act shall be used for the following:
(1)
The hiring of additional employees,
including the hiring of 1,000 FBI agents and, in addition, a sufficient number
of forensic experts, by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in
the Department of Justice to investigate corporate, securities, and mortgage
fraud, and associated violations of the law relating to the United States
financial markets.
(2)
The hiring of
additional employees by the Attorney General of the Department of Justice to
prosecute violations of the laws relating to the United States financial
markets.
(3)
The hiring of
additional employees by the Chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission
Division of Enforcement to investigate and prosecute violations of the law
relating to United States financial markets.
4.
Authorizations
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this Act such sums as necessary for fiscal year 2013, fiscal year
2014, fiscal year 2015, and fiscal year 2016. Such sums shall be available
until obligated.
