1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Jumpstart VA Construction Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The buildings of the Department of Veterans Affairs have an average age of 60 years.
(2)
Since 2004, use of Department facilities has grown from 80 percent to 120 percent, while the
condition of these facilities has eroded from 81 percent to 71 percent
over that same period of time.
(3)
The Department currently manages and maintains more than 5,600 buildings and almost 34,000 acres of
land.
(4)
More than 3,900 infrastructure gaps remain that will cost between $54,000,000,000 and
$66,000,000,000 to close, including $10,000,000,000 in activation costs.
(5)
The Veterans Health Administration has 21 major construction projects dating to 2007 that have been
only partially funded.
(6)
The total unobligated amount for all currently budgeted major construction projects exceeds
$2,900,000,000.
(7)
To finish existing projects and to close current and future gaps, the Department will need to
invest at least $23,200,000,000 over the next 10 years.
(8)
At current requested funding levels, it will take more than 67 years to complete the 10-year
capital investment plan of the Department.
3.
Pilot program for the construction of Department of Veterans Affairs major medical facility
projects by non-Federal entities under partnership agreements
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a 10-year pilot program under which the Secretary
shall enter into partnership agreements on a competitive basis with
appropriate non-Federal entities for the construction of major
construction projects authorized by law.
(b)
Selection of projects
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall select 10 major construction projects for completion by non-Federal entities
under the pilot program. Each project selected shall be a major medical
facility project authorized by law for the construction of a new facility
for which—
(A)
Congress has appropriated any funds;
(B)
the design and development phase is complete; and
(C)
construction has not begun, as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Type of projects
In selecting major construction projects under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall select—
(A)
four seismic-related projects;
(B)
four community based outpatient clinic-related projects; and
(C)
two other projects.
(c)
Agreements
Each partnership agreement for a construction project under the pilot program shall provide that—
(1)
the non-Federal entity shall obtain any permits required pursuant to Federal and State laws before
beginning to carry out construction; and
(2)
if requested by the non-Federal entity, the Secretary shall provide technical assistance for
obtaining any necessary permits for the construction project.
(d)
Responsibilities of Secretary
The Secretary shall—
(1)
appoint a non-Department of Veterans Affairs entity as the project manager of each major
construction project for which the Secretary enters into a partnership
agreement under the pilot program;
(2)
ensure that the project manager appointed under paragraph (1) develops and implements a project
management plan to ensure concise and consistent communication of all
parties involved in the project;
(3)
work in cooperation with each non-Federal entity with which the Secretary enters into a partnership
agreement to minimize multiple change orders;
(4)
develop metrics to monitor change order process times, with the intent of expediting any change
order; and
(5)
monitor any construction project carried out by a non-Federal entity under the pilot program to
ensure that such construction is in compliance with the Federal
Acquisition Regulations and Department of Veterans Affairs acquisition
regulations and that the costs are reasonable.
(e)
Reimbursement
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall reimburse, without interest, a non-Federal entity that carries out work
pursuant to a partnership agreement under the pilot program in an amount
equal to the estimated Federal share of the cost of such work. Any costs
that exceed the amount originally agreed upon between the Secretary and
the non-Federal entity shall be paid by the non-Federal entity. The
Secretary may commence making payments to a non-Federal entity under this
subsection upon entering into a partnership agreement with the entity
under this section.
(2)
Limitation
The Secretary may not make any reimbursement payment under this subsection until the Secretary
determines that the work for which the reimbursement is requested has been
performed in accordance with applicable permits and approved plans.
(3)
Budget requests
The Secretary shall budget for reimbursement under this section on a schedule that is consistent
with the budgeting process of the Department and the ongoing Strategic
Capital Investment Planning priorities list.
(f)
Comptroller General report
The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a biennial report on the
partnership agreements entered into under the pilot program.
(g)
Deadline for implementation
The Secretary shall begin implementing the pilot program under this section by not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
