1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Job Creation through Energy Efficient Manufacturing Act
.
2.
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to encourage widespread deployment of energy efficiency and onsite
renewable energy technologies in manufacturing and industrial facilities
throughout the United States through the establishment of a Financing
Energy Efficient Manufacturing Program that would—
(1)
encourage the widespread availability of financial products and programs with attractive rates and
terms that significantly reduce or eliminate upfront expenses to allow
manufacturing and industrial businesses to invest in energy efficiency
measures, onsite clean and renewable energy systems, smart grid systems,
and alternative vehicle fleets by providing credit support, credit
enhancement, secondary markets, and other support to originators of the
financial products and sponsors of the financing programs; and
(2)
help building owners to invest in measures and systems that reduce energy costs, in many cases
creating a net cost savings that can be realized in the short-term, and
may also allow manufacturing and industrial businesses owners to defer
capital expenditures, save money to hire new workers, and increase the
value, comfort, and sustainability of the property of the owners.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered program
The term
covered program
means a program to finance energy efficiency retrofit, onsite clean and renewable energy, smart
grid, and alternative vehicle fleet projects for industrial businesses.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
(3)
State
The term
State
means—
(A)
a State;
(B)
the District of Columbia;
(C)
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
(D)
any other territory or possession of the United States.
4.
Financing Energy Efficient Manufacturing Program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish a program, to be known as the
Financing Energy Efficient Manufacturing Program
, under which the Secretary shall provide grants to States to establish or expand covered programs.
(b)
Applications
(1)
In general
A State may apply to the Secretary for a grant under subsection (a) to establish or expand covered
programs.
(2)
Evaluation
The Secretary shall evaluate applications submitted by States under paragraph (1) on the basis of—
(A)
the likelihood that the covered program would—
(i)
be established or expanded; and
(ii)
increase the total investment and energy savings of retrofit projects to be supported;
(B)
in the case of industrial business efficiency financing initiatives conducted under subsection (c),
evidence of multistate cooperation and coordination with lenders,
financiers, and owners; and
(C)
other factors that would advance the purposes of this Act, as determined by the Secretary.
(c)
Multistate facilitation
The Secretary shall consult with States and relevant stakeholders with applicable expertise to
establish a process to identify financing opportunities for manufacturing
and industrial business with asset portfolios across multiple States.
(d)
Administration
A State receiving a grant under subsection (a) shall give a higher priority to covered programs
that—
(1)
leverage private and non-Federal sources of funding; and
(2)
aim explicitly to expand the use of energy efficiency project financing using private sources of
funding.
(e)
Davis-Bacon compliance
(1)
In general
All laborers and mechanics employed on projects funded directly by or assisted in whole or in part
by this Act shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on
projects of a character similar in the locality as determined by the
Secretary of Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of part
A of subtitle II of title 40, United States Code (commonly referred to as
the
Davis-Bacon Act
).
(2)
Authority
With respect to the labor standards specified in this subsection, the Secretary of Labor shall have
the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14
of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) and
section 3145
of title 40,
United States Code.
(f)
Reports
(1)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of receipt of a grant under this Act, a State shall submit to
the Secretary, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
Senate, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
Representatives a report that describes the performance of covered
programs carried out using the grant funds.
(2)
Data
(A)
In general
A State receiving a grant under this Act, in cooperation with the Secretary, shall—
(i)
collect and share data resulting from covered programs carried out under this Act; and
(ii)
include in the report submitted under paragraph (1) any data collected under clause (i).
(B)
Department databases
The Secretary shall incorporate data described in subparagraph (A) into appropriate databases of
the Department of Energy, with provisions for the protection of
confidential business data.
5.
Authorization of appropriations
(a)
In general
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $250,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
(b)
State energy offices
Funds provided to a State under this Act shall be provided to the office within the State that is
responsible for developing the State energy plan for the State under part
D of title III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321
et seq.).
