1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Comprehensive TB Elimination Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds as follows:
(1)
Each year approximately 9,000,000 people become ill with active tuberculosis (TB), an airborne
infectious disease, and it is estimated that 1,500,000 of those people
die, making TB the second leading global infectious disease killer.
(2)
There is a global underinvestment in quality TB control, and in the research and development of new
drugs, diagnostics and a vaccine, as well as in the relationship between
TB and HIV/AIDS.
(3)
The increasing occurrence of multi-drug resistant (
MDR
) TB, including extensively drug resistant (
XDR
) TB which is resistant to at least two of the recommended first-line drugs and the recommended
second-line medications, is a serious and emerging global health problem.
(4)
Cases of TB are reported annually in every State within the United States, with a total of 9,582
cases of active TB reported in the United States in 2013.
(5)
In addition to those with active TB, an estimated 8,000,000 to 10,000,000 people in the United
States are infected with the TB bacteria.
(6)
Drug-resistant TB poses a particular challenge to domestic TB control due to the high costs of
treatment and intensive health care resources required. Treatment costs
for MDR TB range from $100,000 to $300,000, which can cause a serious
strain on State public health budgets.
(7)
In 2013, the United States experienced serious shortages of first- and second-line TB drugs and
biologics, including isoniazid, the first-line TB drug, and tubersol, the
biologic used in TB skin tests.
(8)
New tools are urgently needed to more effectively prevent, diagnose, and treat TB. Within the last
40 years, only one new TB drug has been developed and approved in the
United States, and the treatment regimen for MDR TB remains excessively
lengthy, toxic, and difficult for patients to tolerate. The existing
vaccine, which is not used in the United States, confers no protection to
adolescents and adults, protecting only against pulmonary TB in infants
and children.
(9)
The expertise in identifying, treating, and preventing TB is within the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention and the United States public health system. The
identification and preventive treatment of the millions of people in the
United States with TB infection, representing the reservoir of future
active TB cases, is a key component of the strategy to eliminate TB in the
United States.
3.
Food and Drug Administration
Clause (i) of section 506D(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
356d(a)(1)(B)) is amended to read as follows:
(i)
plans for enhanced interagency and intra-agency coordination, communication, and decisionmaking,
including by ensuring coordination between the task force established
under this section and the Federal Tuberculosis Task Force under section
317E(g) of the Public Health Service Act in the development and
implementation of strategies and systems to prevent and mitigate shortages
of drugs used in connection with tuberculosis;
.
4.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Health Resources and Services Administration
(a)
Prioritizing programs for high-Risk populations, including foreign-Born, homeless, and uninsured
populations
Subsection (a) of section 317E of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247b–6
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
The Secretary
and inserting the following:
(1)
Grants
The Secretary
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
Priority
In making grants under this subsection, the Secretary shall give priority to awarding grants to
State health departments proposing to focus on the prevention, control,
and elimination of tuberculosis in high-risk populations, including
foreign-born, homeless, and uninsured populations.
.
(b)
Grants for coordination of programs and services for prevention, diagnosis, and treatment
(1)
Grants
Section 317E of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247b–6
) is amended—
(A)
by redesignating subsections (c) through (h) as subsections (d) through (i), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
(c)
Grants for coordination of programs and services for prevention, diagnosis, and treatment
(1)
Grants
The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services
Administration, may award grants to State and local governments and
Federally qualified health centers for coordinating the programs and
services of such governments and centers to ensure timely and appropriate
prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of tuberculosis.
(2)
Definition
In this subsection, the term
Federally qualified health center
has the meaning given to such term in section 1861(aa) of the Social Security Act.
.
(2)
Conforming changes
Section 317E of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247b–6
) is amended—
(A)
in subsections (d), (e)(1), (e)(3)(A), and (f)(1), as redesignated, by striking
subsection (a) or (b)
each place it appears and inserting
subsection (a), (b), or (c)
; and
(B)
in subsection (e)(3)(A), as redesignated, by inserting
(subject to subsection (a)(2))
after
highest priority
.
(c)
Federal Tuberculosis Task Force
Paragraph (1) of section 317E(h) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247b–6(g)
), as
redesignated, is amended to read as follows:
(1)
Duties
The Federal Tuberculosis Task Force (in this subsection referred to as the
Task Force
) shall provide to the Secretary and other appropriate Federal officials advice on—
(A)
research into new tools under subsection (b)(2) and ensuring access to such new tools; and
(B)
the development and implementation of strategies and systems to prevent and mitigate shortages of
drugs used in connection with tuberculosis.
.
(d)
Reauthorization of national strategy for combating and eliminating tuberculosis
Section 317E(i)(1)(A) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247b–6(h)(1)(A)
) is amended by
striking
$243,101,250 for fiscal year 2013
and inserting
$243,101,250 for each of fiscal years 2013 through 2019
.
5.
National Institutes of Health
Paragraph (1) of section 424C(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285b–7c(b)) is amended
to read as follows:
(1)
enhancing basic, clinical, and operational research on tuberculosis, including with respect to—
(A)
drug resistant tuberculosis;
(B)
infection with, and the progression of, tuberculosis; and
(C)
pediatric tuberculosis;
.
