1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Africa Counter Terrorism Initiative Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The proliferation of terrorist groups is rampant in unstable countries in West and sub-Saharan
Africa. The biggest regional threats include al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb (AQIM), which has known ties to al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
(AQAP), Boko Haram, and al-Shabab. The opportunity to expand the strategic
reach and force projection of the United States into the theater of
operations of the United States Africa Command (in this Act referred to as
AFRICOM
) is now. With the United States strategic pivot to the Pacific now underway, the need to ensure
retention of a strong Atlantic presence is a vital and delicate aspect of
strategic re-positioning.
(2)
The United States Central Command operates from its headquarters in Tampa, Florida, with a forward
operating location in Qatar. The United States Southern Command operates
from its headquarters in Miami, Florida, with forward operating locations
in Honduras and El Salvador. It is not unusual for United States military
units and their combatant command headquarters to operate in different
time zones.
(3)
Analyses conducted by the Government Accountability Office found that the annual recurring cost of
maintaining a United States-based headquarters for AFRICOM would be $60
million to $70 million less than the cost of operating the AFRICOM
headquarters in Stuttgart, Germany. The annual cost of providing AFRICOM
personnel with overseas housing and cost-of-living pay was $81 million per
year, compared with the $19 million to $25 million these would cost if the
personnel were located in the United States. The break-even point to
recover one-time relocation costs to the United States would be reached
between 2 and 6 years after relocation, depending on the costs to
establish facilities in the United States. Relocating AFRICOM to the
continental United States could create up to 4,300 additional jobs, with
an annual impact on the local economy ranging from $350 million to $450
million.
(4)
After an internal cost assessment, the Department of Defense decided to keep AFRICOM headquarters
in Stuttgart, without fully explaining why the operational benefits of
keeping the headquarters in Germany outweigh the benefit of potentially
saving millions of dollars per year and creating thousands of jobs in the
United States.
(5)
A review by the Government Accountability Office in 2013 of the Department’s decision to keep
AFRICOM headquarters in Germany found that the decision was not supported
by comprehensive and well-documented analysis that balanced the
operational and cost benefits of the options available to the Department.
(6)
In April 2013, after the decision had been made to maintain AFRICOM headquarters in Germany,
Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel called on the Department to challenge all
past assumptions in order to seek cost savings and efficiencies in
a time of unprecedented shifts in the world order, new global challenges, and deep global fiscal
uncertainty
, to explore the full range of options for implementing United States national security strategy,
and to
put everything on the table
. The Secretary stated that the size and shape of the military forces should constantly be
reassessed. He stated that this reassessment should include determining
the most appropriate balance between forward-stationed, ro­ta­tion­al­ly
deployed, and home-based forces.
(7)
It is within the strategic and fiscal responsibility of Congress to fully analyze and provide for
the implementation of any consolidation of military installations. There
are more than 110,000 troops and civilians stationed and employed at 29
military installations in Europe. Priority should be given to
consolidating bases that are in close proximity to each other and that can
achieve cost savings without detriment to operational readiness, such as
Royal Air Force Station Mildenhall and Royal Air Force Station Lakenheath,
as well as Moron Air Base, Spain, and Naval Station Rota, Spain.
(8)
Of particular concern is the decision to deploy assets to Moron Air Base, where the readiness and
effectiveness of deployed troops is hindered by the lack of infrastructure
to house, train, and equip them. Specifically, Moron lacks the facilities
to properly perform ground and naval training operations, and only has
limited ability to accomplish air training operations. By contrast, Lajes
Field has implemented more than $150 million of major infrastructure
upgrades over the past 12 years to improve the quality of life, upgrade
communication capabilities, bolster security, and enhance military
operations. With a nearby port, sprawling fields, and unrestricted
airspace, Lajes Field has the unique ability to host extensive air,
ground, and naval training operations. Lajes’ strategic location,
infrastructure improvements, unrestricted air space, and outstanding
training environment for all forces make this an indispensable asset and
an ideal forward operating base for AFRICOM, as opposed to spending
hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade aging sites such as Moron Air
Base, Spain.
(9)
It is in the national interest of the United States to save millions of dollars per year and bring
thousands of jobs to the United States by moving AFRICOM headquarters from
Stuttgart, Germany, to the continental United States.
3.
Requirement for plan to move AFRICOM headquarters to continental United States
(a)
Plan required
The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan in accordance with subsection (b) to transfer the
headquarters of AFRICOM from Stuttgart, Germany, to a location in the
continental United States.
(b)
Matters covered
(1)
Assets of AFRICOM
The plan required under this section shall provide for—
(A)
the 65th Air Base Wing to be an AFRICOM asset;
(B)
AFRICOM permanent assets (including assets related to air, ground, special operations, and
logistics) to be located at Lajes Field, Azores, Portugal; and
(C)
the transfer of United States assets at Lajes Field from United States European Command to AFRICOM,
for purposes of being the forward operating location, logistical hub, and
location of assets of AFRICOM.
(2)
Relocations to Lajes Field
The plan required under this section shall also provide for the relocation of the Special-Purpose
Marine Air-Ground Task Force Crisis Response (SP–MAGTF CR) from Moron Air
Base, Spain, to Lajes Field.
(c)
Submission to Congress
The plan required under this section shall be submitted to Congress not later than 6 months after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Implementation of plan
The Secretary of Defense shall implement the plan required by this section within 6 months after
submission of the plan to Congress under subsection (c), and in no event
later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
4.
Requirement for review of Agreement on Cooperation and Defense Between the United States and
Portugal
The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review of the Agreement on Cooperation and Defense Between
the United States and Portugal, signed at Lisbon June 1, 1995, to ensure
that such Agreement accurately reflects and accounts for the plan required
under section 3.
5.
Continued operation of Lajes Field
Effective until at least the date of completion of the 2018 quadrennial defense review, Lajes Field
shall continue operating 24 hours a day, at or above its 2012 levels of
readiness.
