1.
Deduction for elementary and secondary private school tuition
(a)
In general
Part VII of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating section 224 as section 225, and by inserting after section 223 the following new section:
224.
Elementary and secondary private school tuition
(a)
Allowance of deduction
In the case of an individual, there shall be allowed as a deduction for the taxable year with respect to each dependent for whom the taxpayer is allowed a deduction under section 151 an amount equal to the qualified expenses paid or incurred during the taxable year.
(b)
Limitation
The amount allowed as a deduction under subsection (a) for a taxable year with respect to a dependent shall not exceed $10,000.
(c)
Qualified expenses
For purposes of this section—
(1)
In general
The term
qualified expenses
means expenses for tuition, fees, books, supplies, and other equipment which are incurred in connection with the enrollment or attendance of an individual as an elementary or secondary school student at a private institutional day or residential school, including a parochial school, or a home school (without regard to whether a home school is treated as a private school or home school under State law), that provides elementary or secondary education, as determined under State law.
(2)
Special rule for home schooling
In the case of a home school, the term
qualified expenses
does not include tuition.
.
(b)
Deduction allowed above-the-Line
Subsection (a) of
section 62
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after paragraph (21) the following new paragraph:
(22)
Private education deduction
The deduction allowed by section 224.
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for part VII of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking the item relating to
section 224
and by inserting the following new items:
Sec. 224. Elementary and secondary private school tuition.
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to amounts paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014.
