1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Alzheimer’s Accountability Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds as follows:
(1)
Alzheimer's disease is the most expensive disease in the United States today. Its costs are set to
increase like the costs of no other disease and will be carried in
substantial measure through the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
(2)
Through the unanimous, bipartisan passage of the National Alzheimer's Project Act (Public Law
111–375),
the 111th Congress recognized the national imperative to act and
instructed the Nation's scientists to develop a plan to change the
trajectory of this disease.
(3)
Scientists at the National Institutes of Health have prepared and presented to Congress a national
plan to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer's disease by 2025,
including the underlying specification of milestones and timelines to
achieve this goal.
(4)
Capital budgeting is a universally accepted best practice for the successful management of such a
multiyear project, but such projections have not been prepared and
provided to Congress to achieve the 2025 goal, preventing Congress from
exercising truly effective oversight over a venture of profound importance
to the Nation.
3.
Professional judgment budget for initiatives of NIH under National Alzheimer’s Project
Section 2 of the National Alzheimer’s Project Act (
Public Law 111–375
) (
42 U.S.C. 11225
) is
amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
(h)
Professional judgment budget
For each fiscal year through fiscal year 2025, the Director of the National Institutes of Health
shall prepare and submit, directly to the President for review and
transmittal to Congress, after reasonable opportunity for comment (but
without change) by the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the
Advisory Council, an annual budget estimate (including an estimate of the
number and type of personnel needs for the Institutes) for the initiatives
of the National Institutes of Health pursuant to this Act.
.
