1.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
On April 6, 2012, an improvised explosive device was thrown over the fence of the United States
Consulate in Benghazi, Libya.
(2)
On May 1, 2012, the British Embassy in Tripoli, Libya, was attacked by a violent mob and set on
fire
while the embassies of other NATO member countries were attacked as well.
(3)
On May 22, 2012, two rocket-propelled grenades were fired at the Benghazi office of the
International Committee of the Red Cross, less than one mile from the
United States Consulate.
(4)
On June 6, 2012, a large improvised explosive device destroyed part of the security perimeter of
the United States Consulate in Benghazi.
(5)
On June 10, 2012, a car carrying the British ambassador was attacked in Tripoli.
(6)
On September 11, 2012, the United States Consulate in Benghazi was attacked by an organized group
of armed militants killing United States Ambassador Chris Stevens, Sean
Smith, Glen Doherty, and Tyrone Woods.
(7)
On January 10, 2014, the Secretary of State designated Ansar al-Sharia in Benghazi and Ansar
al-Sharia in Darnah as foreign terrorist organizations for their role in
the attack against the United States Consulate in Benghazi.
(8)
The attacks on September 11, 2012, continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the
national security and foreign policy of the United States.
(9)
The President has authority under the Constitution to take action to deter and prevent acts of
international terrorism against the United States.
2.
Authorization for use of United States Armed Forces
(a)
In general
The President is authorized to use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations,
organizations, or persons the President determines planned, authorized,
committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11,
2012, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order to prevent any
future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such
nations, organizations, or persons.
(b)
War powers resolution requirements
(1)
Specific statutory authorization
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, the Congress declares that this
section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within
the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution.
(2)
Applicability of other requirements
Nothing in this Act supercedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution.
