1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act
of 2013
.
2.
Prohibition of
inclusion of Social Security account numbers on Medicare cards
(a)
In
general
Section 205(c)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 405(c)(2)(C)) is amended—
(1)
by moving clause (x), as added by section
1414(a)(2) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, 6 ems to the
left;
(2)
by redesignating clause (x), as added by
section 2(a)(1) of the Social Security Number Protection Act of 2010, and
clause (xi) as clauses (xi) and (xii), respectively; and
(3)
by adding at the
end the following new clause:
(xiii)
The Secretary
of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Commissioner of Social
Security, shall establish cost-effective procedures to ensure that a Social
Security account number (or derivative thereof) is not displayed, coded, or
embedded on the Medicare card issued to an individual who is entitled to
benefits under part A of title XVIII or enrolled under part B of title XVIII
and that any other identifier displayed on such card is not identifiable as a
Social Security account number (or derivative
thereof).
.
(b)
Implementation
In implementing clause (xiii) of section
205(c)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 405(c)(2)(C)
), as added by
subsection (a)(3), the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish a
cost-effective process that involves the least amount of disruption to Medicare
beneficiaries and health care providers. The Secretary shall consider
implementing a process, similar to the process involving Railroad Retirement
Board beneficiaries, under which a Medicare beneficiary identifier which is not
a Social Security account number (or derivative thereof) is used external to
the Department of Health and Human Services and is convertible over to a Social
Security account number (or derivative thereof) for use internal to such
Department and the Social Security Administration.
(c)
Effective
date
(1)
In
general
Clause (xiii) of
section 205(c)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 405(c)(2)(C)
), as
added by subsection (a)(3), shall apply with respect to Medicare cards issued
on and after an effective date specified by the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, but in no case shall such effective date be later than the date that
is 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Reissuance
The Secretary—
(A)
shall provide for
the reissuance of Medicare cards that comply with the requirements of such
clause not later than 3 years after the effective date specified by the
Secretary under paragraph (1); and
(B)
may permit an
individual to apply for the reissuance of a Medicare card that complies with
such requirements before the date of reissuance otherwise provided under
subparagraph (A) in such exceptional circumstances as the Secretary may
specify.
