1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Establishing Beneficiary Equity in the Hospital Readmission Program Act
.
2.
Adjusting the Medicare hospital readmission reduction program to respond to patient disparities
(a)
Removal of certain readmissions
Section 1886(q)(5)(E) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395ww(q)(5)(E)
) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
Such term does not include an admission that is classified within one or more of the following:
transplants, end-stage renal disease, burns, trauma, psychosis, or
substance abuse.
.
(b)
Adjustment for dual eligible population
Section 1886(q)(4)(C) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395ww(q)(4)(C)
) is amended by adding
at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
Adjustment for dual eligibles
In applying clause (i), the Secretary shall provide for such risk adjustment as will take into
account a hospital’s proportion of inpatients who are full-benefit dual
eligible individuals (as defined in section 1935(c)(6)) in order to ensure
that hospitals that treat the most vulnerable populations are not unfairly
penalized by the program under this subsection.
.
(c)
MedPAC study on 30-Day readmission threshold
The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission shall conduct a study on the appropriateness of using a
threshold of 30 days for readmissions under section 1886(q)(5)(E) of the
Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395ww(q)(5)(E)
). The Commission shall
submit to Congress a report on such study in its report to Congress in
June 2014.
(d)
Addressing issue of noncompliant patients
Section 1886(q)(4)(C) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395ww(q)(4)(C)
), as amended by
subsection (b), is further amended by adding at the end the following new
clause:
(iv)
Consideration of exclusion of noncompliant patient cases based on V codes
In promulgating regulations to carry out this subsection for the applicable period with respect to
fiscal year 2015, the Secretary shall consider the use of V codes for
potential exclusions of cases in order to address the issue of
noncompliant patients.
.
(e)
Effective date; budget neutral implementation
(1)
The amendments made by this section shall be effective for applicable periods with respect to
fiscal year 2015 and each succeeding fiscal year.
(2)
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall make such payment adjustment to subsection (d)
hospitals under the inpatient prospective payment system under section
1886 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395ww
) as may be necessary to
ensure that the implementation of the amendments made by this section do
not result in an increase in aggregate expenditures under such section.
