1.
Application of general laws to Executive Branch and Congress
Congress and the Executive Branch are expressly and equally bound by any Federal law which is intended to be broadly enforced upon the American people.
2.
No Federally funded health care premium subsidies for Members of Congress, the President, and other civilian Federal workers until ACA is fully repealed
(a)
In general
Subject to subsection (b), until the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
Public Law 111–148
) is fully repealed, a Member or employee of Congress, the President, the Vice-President, any employee of the Executive Office of the President, and any other civilian Federal worker is not eligible for any Federally funded health care premium subsidies.
(b)
Exception
Subsection (a) shall not apply to the provision of a health care premium subsidy—
(1)
under title XVIII or XIX of the Social Security Act;
(2)
for coverage under a health care program under
chapter 17
of title 38, United States Code; or
(3)
for medical coverage under
chapter 55
of title 10, United States Code, including coverage under the TRICARE program.
3.
Moving all civilian Federal workers into Exchange plans
(a)
In general
Section 1312(d)(3)(D) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
42 U.S.C. 18032(d)(3)(D)
) is amended—
(1)
in the subparagraph heading, by inserting
and other civilian Federal officials and employees
after
Members of Congress
;
(2)
in clause (i)—
(A)
by striking
and congressional staff
and inserting
and any employee of Congress, the President, the Vice-President, any employee of the Executive Office of the President, and any other civilian Federal worker
; and
(B)
by striking
or congressional staff
and inserting
or other such employee, officer, or worker
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
Clarification of effect on uniformed services, TRICARE, and VA health plans
Nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed as affecting the eligibility of an individual to enroll in a health plan made available pursuant to, or to otherwise receive health care under,
chapter 55
of title 10, United States Code, or chapters 17 or 18 of title 38, United States Code.
.
(b)
Maintaining current FEHBP coverage of annuitants
Nothing in the amendments made by subsection (a) shall be construed as affecting the continued coverage of annuitants under health benefits plans under
chapter 89
of title 5, United States Code, as in effect as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
