1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Yosemite National Park Public Access Preservation and Boundary Modification Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Additional land
The term
additional land
means the approximately 1,575 acres of land adjacent to the Park, as generally depicted on the
map.
(2)
Map
The term
map
means the map entitled
Yosemite National Park Location Map for Boundary Line Adjustment (BLA) Areas
.
(3)
Park
The term
Park
means the Yosemite National Park in the State of California.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
3.
Yosemite National Park additional lands
(a)
Acquisition of land
The Secretary may acquire, by donation only, the additional land or an interest in the additional
land to be added to the Park.
(b)
Disposal of equal land
The additional land may be acquired only after the Secretary has disposed of, by public auction,
approximately 1,575 acres of Federal land under the administration of the
Secretary.
(c)
Availability of map
The map shall be on file and available for inspection in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(d)
Boundary modification
The boundary of the Park shall be revised to reflect the acquisition of the land under subsection
(a).
(e)
Administration
The Secretary shall administer the additional land or interest in the additional land acquired
under this section as part of the Park in accordance with the laws
(including regulations) applicable to the Park, except that the Secretary
shall—
(1)
not prohibit recreational activities otherwise permitted within Yosemite National Park on the date
of enactment of this Act; and
(2)
beginning not later than 1 year after acquiring the additional lands, comply with a hazardous fuels
reduction plan developed by the Secretary for the additional lands.
(f)
No Use of Condemnation
As specified in subsection (a), the Secretary may not acquire by condemnation any land or interest
in land under this Act or for the purposes of this Act.
(g)
No Buffer Zone Created
Nothing in this Act, the acquisition of the additional land or an interest in the additional land,
or the application of the management plan for the Park to the acquired
additional land shall be construed to create buffer zones outside of the
Park. That activities or uses can be seen, heard, or detected from the
acquired additional land shall not preclude, limit, control, regulate or
determine the conduct or management of activities or uses outside of the
Park.
(h)
Written Consent of the Owner
As specified in subsection (a), which authorizes the acquisition of the additional land by donation
only, no non-Federal property may be included in the Park without the
written consent of the owner.
