1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Guard
Units And Reservists Deserve Remembrance Act
.
2.
Availability for
purchase of Department of Veterans Affairs memorial headstones and markers for
members of reserve components who performed certain training
Section 2306
of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(i)
(1)
The Secretary shall make
available for purchase a memorial headstone or marker for the marked or
unmarked grave of an individual described in paragraph (2) or for the purpose
of commemorating such an individual whose remains are unavailable.
(2)
An individual described in this
paragraph is an individual who—
(A)
as a member of a United States
National Guard or Reserve component performed inactive duty training or active
duty for training for at least 6 years but did not serve on active duty;
and
(B)
is not otherwise ineligible for a
memorial headstone or marker on account of the nature of the individual’s
separation from the Armed Forces or other cause.
(3)
A headstone or marker for the grave
of an individual may be purchased under this subsection by—
(A)
the individual;
(B)
the surviving spouse, child, sibling,
or parent of the individual; or
(C)
an individual other than the next of
kin, as determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(4)
In establishing the prices of the
headstones and markers made available for purchase under this section, the
Secretary shall ensure the prices are sufficient to cover the costs associated
with the production and delivery of such headstones and markers.
(5)
No person may receive any benefit under the
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs solely by reason of this
subsection.
(6)
This subsection does not authorize
any new burial benefit for any person or create any new authority for any
individual to be buried in a national cemetery.
(7)
The Secretary shall coordinate with
the Secretary of Defense in establishing procedures to determine whether an
individual is an individual described in paragraph
(2).
.
