1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument Correction Act
.
2.
Definition
For the purpose of this Act, the term
National Monument
means the area designated as the
Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument
in Presidential Proclamation 9131, dated May 21, 2014.
3.
Border security and law enforcement
(a)
In general
Neither the National Monument designation nor any management plan in furtherance of the National
Monument shall be interpreted or construed to—
(1)
prevent the Secretary of Homeland Security from undertaking law enforcement and border security
activities within the areas designated as a National Monument, including
the ability to use motorized vehicles within the National Monument;
(2)
limit the 2006 Memorandum of Understanding among the Department of Homeland Security, the
Department of the Interior, and the Department of Agriculture regarding
cooperative national security and counterterrorism efforts on Federal land
along the borders of the United States;
(3)
prevent the Secretary of Homeland Security from conducting any low-level overflights over the
National Monument that may be necessary for law enforcement and border
security purposes; or
(4)
prevent the Secretary of the Interior from allowing within the National Monument the installation
and maintenance of communication or surveillance infrastructure necessary
for law enforcement or border security activities.
(b)
Administrative access
The route excluded from the Potrillo Mountains identified as
Restricted—Administrative Access
on the map entitled
Potrillo Mountains Complex
and dated December 10, 2013, shall be available for administrative and law enforcement uses,
including border security activities.
(c)
Law enforcement activities
Nothing in this Act, or any land management plan issued in furtherance of this Act or Presidential
Proclamation 9139, dated May 21, 2014, shall prevent Federal, State, or
local law enforcement personnel from having unfettered access to the
National Monument, including the use of specialized equipment and
motorized vehicles outside of existing roads and trails.
4.
National Defense
Nothing in the national monument designation or any management plan in furtherance of the national
monument shall restrict or preclude—
(1)
low-level overflights of military aircraft over the National Monument, including military
overflights that can be seen or heard within the National Monument;
(2)
the designation of new units of special airspace over the National Monument; or
(3)
the use or establishment of military flight training routes over the National Monument.
