1.
No finalization of any
standard of performance for carbon dioxide emissions from any existing or new
fossil fuel-fired electric utility generating unit unless carbon capture and
storage is technologically and economically feasible
(a)
In
general
The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
shall not finalize any rule imposing any standard of performance under section
111 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7411
) for emissions of carbon dioxide from
any existing or new source that is a fossil fuel-fired electric utility
generating unit unless and until—
(1)
the Administrator
determines in accordance with such section 111 that carbon capture and storage
is the best system of emission reduction which (taking into account the cost of
achieving such reduction and any nonair health and environmental impact and
energy requirements) the Administrator determines has been adequately
demonstrated; and
(2)
carbon capture and storage is found to be
technologically and economically feasible for fossil fuel-fired electric
utility generating units in a report that is published in the Federal Register,
and submitted to the Congress, by at least three of the following four
officials:
(A)
The Administrator
of the Energy Information Administration.
(B)
The Comptroller
General of the United States.
(C)
The Director of
the National Energy Technology Laboratory.
(D)
The Under
Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology.
(b)
Prohibition
against combined source category
In proposing or finalizing any
rule imposing any standard of performance under section 111 of the Clean Air
Act (
42 U.S.C. 7411
) for emissions of carbon dioxide from any existing or new
source that is a fossil fuel-fired electric utility generating unit, the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall not combine in the
same category of stationary sources—
(1)
electric utility
steam generating units subject to subpart Da of part 60, title 40, Code of
Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act);
and
(2)
combined cycle
electric generating units subject to subpart KKKK of such part (as in effect on
such date).
(c)
Definitions
In
this section:
(1)
The term
economically feasible
means the present discounted value of the revenue from the projected sale of
electricity from a generating unit in a competitive market over the life of a
unit that employs carbon capture and storage exceeds the present discounted
value of the cost of the unit, including costs associated with any energy
required to capture, compress, transport, and store carbon dioxide.
(2)
The terms
existing source
and
new source
have the meanings given such term in section 111(a) of
the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7411(a)
).
(3)
The term
technologically
feasible
refers to the demonstrated operation of carbon capture and
storage technologies integrated with power production at an appropriate scale
to ensure safe and reliable production of electricity with capture and storage
on a widespread geographic basis.
