1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Religious Freedom Tax Repeal Act of
2013
.
2.
Group health plan
requirement excise tax exception for religious or moral opposition to
coverage
Section 4980D of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating subsection (f) as
subsection (g) and by inserting after subsection (e) the following new
subsection:
(f)
Exception for
religious or moral opposition to certain coverage
No tax shall be imposed on a failure of a
group health plan to meet the requirements of section 2713(a)(4) of the Public
Health Service Act, as such section applies by operation of section 9815, in
the case of any failure to provide coverage to which an employer with respect
to such plan is opposed by reason of adherence to a religious belief or moral
conviction.
.
3.
No authority under
ERISA to enforce requirement for group health plans to provide coverage to
which an employer objects on religious or moral grounds
Section 502(b) of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (
29 U.S.C. 1132(b)
) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
(4)
The Secretary may not bring an action to
enforce any requirement to provide coverage under section 2713(a)(4) of the
Public Health Service Act, as such section applies by operation of section
715(a) of this title, against a plan if an employer with respect to such plan
is opposed to such coverage by reason of adherence to a religious belief or
moral
conviction.
.
4.
No penalties
under the Public Health Service Act for group health plans not providing
coverage to which an employer objects on religious or moral
grounds
Section 2713 of the
Public Health Service Act is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
(d)
Exception for
religious or moral opposition to certain coverage
The provisions of subsections (a)(2) and
(b) of section 2723 shall not apply with respect to any failure of a group
health plan of an employer or group health insurance coverage offered in
connection with such a plan to meet any requirement under subsection (a)(4)
insofar as such requirement relates to providing coverage to which an employer
is opposed on the basis of religious belief or moral
conviction.
.
