1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Military Religious Freedom Protection
Act
.
2.
Protection of
rights of conscience of members of the Armed Forces and chaplains
(a)
Protection
Chapter 53
of title 10, United States Code,
is amended by inserting after section 1034 the following new section:
1034a.
Protection of
rights of conscience of members of the Armed Forces and chaplains
(a)
Protection of
rights of conscience
The
sincerely held religious or moral beliefs of a member of the Armed Forces
concerning the appropriate and inappropriate expression of human sexuality
shall be accommodated and shall not be the basis of any adverse personnel
action, discrimination, or denial of promotion, schooling, training, or
assignment. Nothing in this subsection precludes disciplinary action for
conduct that is proscribed by chapter 47 of this title (the Uniform Code of
Military Justice).
(b)
Protection of
chaplains
(1)
A military chaplain is a certified
religious leader or clergy of a faith community who, after satisfying the
professional and educational requirements of the commissioning service, is
commissioned as an officer in the Chaplains Corps of one of the branches of the
Armed Forces. A chaplain is a representative of the chaplain’s faith group, who
remains accountable to the sending faith group for the chaplain’s religious
ministry to members of the Armed Forces, to—
(A)
provide for the religious and spiritual
needs of members of the Armed Forces of that faith group; and
(B)
facilitate the religious needs for
other faith groups.
(2)
A
military chaplain shall not be directed, ordered, or required to perform any
duty, rite, ritual, ceremony, service, or function that is contrary to the
conscience, moral principles, or religious beliefs of the chaplain or contrary
to the moral principles or religious beliefs of the chaplain’s faith group. The
refusal by a military chaplain to perform a duty, rite, ritual, ceremony,
service, or function that is contrary to the conscience, moral principles, or
religious beliefs of the chaplain or contrary to the moral principles or
religious beliefs of the chaplain’s faith group shall not be the basis for any
adverse personnel action, discrimination, or denial of promotion, schooling,
training, or assignment.
(c)
Regulations
The Secretary of Defense shall issue
regulations setting forth guidance to implement the protections afforded by
this
section.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter
is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1034 the following
new item:
1034a. Protection of rights of conscience
of members of the Armed Forces and
chaplains.
.
3.
Use of military
installations as site for marriage ceremonies or marriage-like
ceremonies
A military
installation or other property owned, rented, or otherwise under the
jurisdiction or control of the Department of Defense shall not be used to
officiate, solemnize, or perform a marriage or marriage-like ceremony involving
anything other than the union of one man with one woman.
