1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Biological Implant Tracking and Veteran Safety Act of 2014
.
2.
Identification and tracking of biological implants used in Department of Veterans Affairs medical
facilities
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 73
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
7330B.
Identification and tracking of biological implants
(a)
Standard identification system for biological implants
The Secretary shall adopt the unique device identification system developed for medical devices by
the Food and Drug Administration pursuant to section 519(f) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360i(f)
), or implement a
comparable standard identification system, for use in identifying
biological implants intended for use in medical procedures conducted in
medical facilities of the Department.
(b)
Biological implant tracking system
(1)
The Secretary shall implement a system for tracking the biological implants referred to in
subsection (a) from donor to implantation. Such system shall be compatible
with the identification system adopted or implemented under subsection
(a).
(2)
The Secretary shall implement inventory controls compatible with the tracking system implemented
under paragraph (1) so that all patients who have received, in a medical
facility of the Department, a biological implant subject to a recall by
the Food and Drug Administration can be notified of the recall, if based
on the evaluation of appropriate medical personnel of the Department of
the risks and benefits, the Secretary determines such notification is
appropriate.
(c)
Consistency with Food and Drug Administration regulations
To the extent that a conflict arises between this section and a provision of the Federal Food,
Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.
) or sections 351 or 361 of the
Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 262
) (including any regulations
issued under such Acts), the provision the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic
Act or Public Health Service Act (including any regulations issued under
such Acts) shall apply.
(d)
Definition of biological implant
In this section, the term
biological implant
means any human cell, tissue, or cellular or tissue-based product—
(1)
under the meaning given the term
human cells
in
section 1271.3
of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation; or
(2)
that is regulated as a device under subpart A of part 801 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations,
or any successor regulation.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end of the items
relating to such subchapter the following new item:
7330B. Identification and tracking of biological implants.
.
(c)
Implementation deadlines
(1)
Standard identification system
(A)
In general
With respect to biological implants described in paragraph (1) of subsection (d) of section 7330B
of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs shall adopt or implement a standard identification
system for biological implants, as required by subsection (a) of such
section, by not later than the date that is 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
(B)
Implants regulated as devices
With respect to biological implants described in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) of such section,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall adopt or implement such standard
identification system in compliance with the compliance dates established
by the Food and Drug Administration pursuant to section 519(f) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360i(f)
).
(2)
Tracking system
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall implement the biological implant tracking system required
by subsection (b) of section 7330B, as added by subsection (a), by not
later than the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(d)
Reporting requirement
If the biological implant tracking system required by subsection (b) of such section is not
operational by the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide to the
Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives
a written explanation for each month until such time as the system is
operational. Each such explanation shall describe each impediment to the
implementation of the system, steps being taken to remediate each such
impediment, and target dates for a solution to each such impediment.
3.
Procurement of biological implants used in Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities
(a)
Procurement
(1)
In general
Subchapter II of chapter 81 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new
section:
8129.
Procurement of biological implants
(a)
In general
(1)
The Secretary may procure biological implants only from vendors that meet the following conditions:
(A)
The vendor uses the standard identification system adopted or implemented by the Secretary under
section 7330B(a) of this title and has safeguards to ensure that a
production identifier has been in place at each step of distribution of
each biological implant from its donor.
(B)
The vendor is registered with the Food and Drug Administration under subpart B of part 1271 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation, and in
the case of a vendor that uses tissue distribution intermediaries, the
vendor uses only tissue distribution intermediaries that are appropriately
registered with the Food and Drug Administration.
(C)
The vendor ensures that donor eligibility determinations and such other records as the Secretary
may require accompany each biological implant at all times, regardless of
the country of origin of the donor of the biological material.
(D)
The vendor consents to periodic inspections and audits by the Department of Veterans Affairs
regarding the accuracy of records and the handling of products.
(E)
The vendor agrees to cooperate with all biological implant recalls conducted on the vendor’s own
initiative, by the request of the Food and Drug Administration, or by a
statutory order of the Food and Drug Administration.
(F)
The vendor agrees to provide to the Secretary any adverse event report or warning letter of the
Food and Drug Administration issued to the vendor by not later than 30
days after the vendor receives such report or warning letter.
(G)
The vendor agrees to retain all records associated with the procurement of a biological implant by
the Department for at least five years after the date of the procurement
of the biological implant.
(H)
The vendor maintains active accreditation with the American Association of Tissue Banks or a
similar national accreditation specific to biological implants.
(2)
The Secretary shall procure biological implants under the Federal Supply Schedules of the General
Services Administration, unless such implants are not available under such
Schedules. For biological implants listed on the Federal Supply Schedules,
the Secretary shall accommodate reasonable vendor requests to undertake
outreach efforts to educate medical professionals of the Department about
the use and efficacy of such biological implants.
(3)
Section 8123 of this title shall not apply to the procurement of biological implants.
(4)
In the case of biological implants that are unavailable for procurement under the Federal Supply
Schedules, the Secretary shall procure such implants using competitive
procedures in accordance with applicable law and the Federal Acquisition
Regulation.
(b)
Penalties
In addition to any applicable penalty under any other provision of law, any procurement employee of
the Department who is found responsible for a biological implant
procurement transaction with intent to avoid or with reckless disregard of
the requirements of this section shall be ineligible to hold a certificate
of appointment as a contracting officer or to serve as the representative
of an ordering officer, contracting officer, or purchase card holder.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
biological implant
shall have the meaning given such term in section 7330B(d) of this title.
(2)
The term
production identifier
means a distinct identification code that—
(A)
relates a biological implant to the donor of the implant and to all records pertaining to the
implant;
(B)
includes information designed to facilitate effective tracking, using the distinct identification
code, from the donor to the recipient and from the recipient to the donor;
and
(C)
satisfies the requirements of subsection (c) of
section 1271.290
of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations, or any successor regulation.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end of the items
relating to such subchapter the following new item:
8129. Procurement of biological implants.
.
(b)
Effective date
Section 8129
of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the
date that is 180 days after the date on which the tracking system required
under subsection (b) of section 7330B of such title, as added by section
2(a) is implemented.
(c)
Special rule for cryopreserved products
During the three-year period beginning on the effective date of
section 8129
of title 38, United
States Code, as added by subsection (a), biological implants produced and
labeled before that date may be procured by the Department of Veterans
Affairs without relabeling under the standard identification system
adopted or implemented under section 7330B of such title, as added by
section 2(a).
