1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Iran Nuclear Agreement Accountablity Act
.
2.
Congressional review of nuclear agreements with Iran
(a)
Congressional review of nuclear agreements with respect to Iran
(1)
In general
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the President, within three days of the
conclusion of any agreement between the United States, any other party,
and the Islamic Republic of Iran related to Iran’s nuclear program, shall
submit such agreement to Congress.
(2)
Procedures for review
(A)
In general
During the 15-day period beginning on the date on which the President submits an agreement under
paragraph (1), the Committees on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives shall review
any such agreement and may hold hearings or briefings, as appropriate.
(B)
Expedited procedures for a joint resolution of approval or disapproval
(i)
In general
During the 15-day period beginning on the day after the period for review provided for in
subparagraph (A), a joint resolution of approval or a joint resolution of
disapproval may be introduced in the House of Representatives by the
Speaker, the minority leader, or their respective designee, or in the
Senate by the majority leader, the minority leader, or their respective
designee, and may not be amended.
(ii)
Referral
A joint resolution of approval or a joint resolution of disapproval introduced under clause (i) in
the Senate shall be referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations and a
joint resolution of approval or a joint resolution of disapproval
introduced under clause (i) in the House of Representatives shall be
referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
(iii)
Committee discharge and floor consideration
The provisions of subsections (c) through (f) of section 152 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
2192) (relating to committee discharge and floor consideration of certain
resolutions in the House of Representatives and the Senate) apply to a
joint resolution of approval or a joint resolution of disapproval under
this subsection to the same extent that such subsections apply to joint
resolutions under such section 152, except that—
(I)
subsection (c)(1) shall be applied and administered by substituting
10 days
for
30 days
; and
(II)
subsection (f)(1)(A)(i) shall be applied and administered by substituting
Committee on Foreign Relations
for
Committee on Finance
.
(iv)
Rules of the House of Representatives and the Senate
This subsection is enacted by Congress—
(I)
as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and the House of Representatives,
respectively, and as such is deemed a part of the rules of each House,
respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be
followed in that House in the case of a joint resolution, and it
supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with
such rules; and
(II)
with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as
relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner
and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.
(v)
Definitions
In this subsection—
(I)
the term
joint resolution of approval
means only a joint resolution of the 2 Houses of Congress, the sole matter after the resolving
clause of which is as follows:
That Congress approves of the agreement between the United States and the Islamic Republic of Iran
submitted by the President to Congress under section 2(a) of the Iran
Nuclear Agreement Accountablity Act on ____.
, with the blank space being filled with the appropriate date; and
(II)
the term
joint resolution of disapproval
means only a joint resolution of the 2 Houses of Congress, the sole matter after the resolving
clause of which is as follows:
That Congress disapproves of the agreement between the United States and the Islamic Republic of
Iran submitted by the President to Congress under section 2(a) of the Iran
Nuclear Agreement Accountablity Act on ____.
, with the blank space being filled with the appropriate date.
(b)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section or any action taken pursuant to this section shall be construed as approval
of any sanctions relief in connection with any agreement with respect to
Iran’s nuclear program.
