1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ebola Emergency Response Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the current outbreak of the Ebola virus disease in West Africa poses severe health, economic, and
security threats to the countries affected by the outbreak of the Ebola
virus disease, the United States, and the broader international community;
and
(2)
the whole-of-government response taken by the United States provides unique capabilities that are
critical to effectively helping contain the Ebola virus disease in West
Africa, yet the United States alone will not succeed in containing the
Ebola virus disease.
3.
Statements of policy
It shall be the policy of the United States to—
(1)
support a robust international response to the Ebola virus disease in West Africa by undertaking a
range of activities to immediately help detect, contain, treat, and deter
the further spread of the disease;
(2)
support the efforts of governments of affected countries and of local, regional, and international
nongovernmental organizations and civil society organizations working on
the front lines of the response to the Ebola virus disease; and
(3)
work with appropriate security sector personnel engaged in the response to the Ebola virus disease
in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone, as well as with civil society,
regional organizations, and the United Nations to enhance border security
and create a secure operating environment for health workers and other
responders and the communities they are serving, including by repurposing,
as necessary and appropriate, existing United States security assistance
provided to the affected countries to address immediate border security
and law enforcement needs.
4.
International efforts to control the outbreak of the Ebola virus disease
In carrying out the policy under section 3, the President shall—
(1)
seek to coordinate with the governments of countries of Africa affected by or at risk of being
affected by the outbreak of the Ebola virus disease, other donors, the
private sector, regional and international financial institutions, local,
regional, and international organizations, civil society, and local,
regional, and nongovernmental organizations, particularly organizations
that possess experience in emergency relief and infection control, to
devise and implement a coherent, comprehensive strategy to control the
Ebola virus disease and assist affected populations, utilizing all
necessary and appropriate assets and capabilities of the United States
Government; and
(2)
direct the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations to use the voice, vote, and
influence of the United States at the United Nations to—
(A)
ensure that the United Nations Mission in Liberia is fully protecting individuals under its care
from exploitation and abuse, including by soldiers serving under its
command, and, within its capabilities and in the context of its mandate to
help solidify peace and stability while protecting civilians in Liberia,
plays an active role in the emergency response, including by providing
logistics and engineering support, as well as securing border crossings,
state institutions, and treatment facilities, as necessary and
appropriate; and
(B)
ensure that the United Nations Mission for the Ebola Emergency Response (UNMEER) plays an effective
role in aligning donors around a single strategic operating plan to
detect, contain, treat, and deter the further spread of Ebola, and that
the associated costs for its work are offset by decreases elsewhere in the
general budget of the United Nations.
5.
Assistance to countries affected by the outbreak of the Ebola virus disease
(a)
Authorization
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and consistent with the authorities of section 491 of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2292
), the President is
authorized to provide assistance on an emergency basis to countries
directly affected by or at imminent risk of being affected by the outbreak
of the Ebola virus disease to effectively address such outbreak, by
supporting the activities described in subsection (b).
(b)
Activities supported
Activities supported by assistance under subsection (a) are the following:
(1)
The construction, staffing, and equipping of patient isolation and treatment facilities in
sufficient numbers to treat infected persons at the most appropriate
locations.
(2)
The construction and equipping of laboratories in sufficient numbers to ensure accurate testing for
the Ebola virus disease and other infectious diseases, as necessary and
appropriate, in as rapid a time frame as possible.
(3)
The provision of vital medical supplies and equipment necessary to contain the outbreak.
(4)
The recruitment and training of local and international staff on effective disease identification,
isolation, contact tracing, and care with respect to the Ebola virus
disease, especially the proper use of universal precautions, personal
protective equipment, and other infection control measures, to minimize
transmission.
(5)
The recruitment, training, and equipping of safe burial teams, as necessary, to reduce transmission
of the Ebola virus disease.
(6)
The provision of medical evacuations, on a reimbursable basis, for medical and other personnel
engaged in the response to the Ebola virus disease who become infected
with the disease, as necessary and appropriate.
(7)
The development of an effective public information campaign to help limit the transmission of the
Ebola virus disease, utilizing all appropriate means of communication,
including digital, print, broadcast communication, and communications
through local health care workers, media, schools, civil society
organizations, and faith-based and traditional leaders.
(8)
The development and deployment of Ebola diagnostics and surveillance tools, as well as vaccines and
treatments as they become available and to the extent possible that such
vaccines and treatments adhere to strictly enforced informed consent
protocols.
(9)
The provision of emergency food assistance, water and sanitation, shelter, and support for orphans
and vulnerable children in communities affected by the Ebola virus
disease.
(10)
The provision of technical assistance to strengthen border control, including enhanced health
screening at exit and entry points in the region, to be complemented by
appropriate health screening at United States ports of entry.
(11)
Activities related to sustainable post-outbreak economic recovery and ensuring the stability of
countries affected by the Ebola virus disease.
(c)
Allocation and reimbursement among agencies
(1)
In general
In carrying out this section, the President, acting through the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development, is authorized to utilize the
services and facilities of, or procure commodities from, any agency of the
United States Government on a non-reimbursable basis, subject to the
written consent of the head of such other agency, and notwithstanding any
provision of law relating to limitations on the use of authorities or
funding of such other agency.
(2)
Congressional notification
The Administrator shall notify the appropriate committees not later than 15 days after the date on
which the authority under paragraph (1) is utilized. Such notification
shall include the name of the other agency, the value of such services or
facilities utilized, or commodities procured, the affected appropriations
accounts, and a justification for the utilization of the authority under
paragraph (1).
6.
Sense of Congress on international support to avoid economic collapse and assist with post-crisis
countries directly affected by the outbreak of the Ebola virus disease
It is the sense of Congress that the President should work with other donors, including
international financial institutions, to encourage such other donors to
help the governments of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone mitigate the
risks of economic collapse and related civil unrest by providing
appropriate access to emergency grants and financing tools, as necessary
and appropriate, to address fiscal issues that are the direct result of
the Ebola virus disease crisis, and to assist with post-crisis economic
recovery.
7.
Report
(a)
In general
Not later than 6 months after the date on which the President determines that the Ebola epidemic in
West Africa has been effectively contained, the President shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a report that assesses the United
States coordination and response to the Ebola epidemic, including how the
authorities provided pursuant to this Act were utilized and lessons
learned that may have applications in response to future epidemics.
(b)
Appropriate congressional committees
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Armed
Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate.
8.
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry out section 491 of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2292
) $1,801,000,000 for fiscal year
2015.
