1.
Findings and definitions
(a)
Finding
Congress finds it in the public interest to authorize the sale of certain federally owned land in
the Kisatchie National Forest in Louisiana for market value consideration.
(b)
Definitions
As used in this Act:
(1)
The term
Collins Camp Properties
means Collins Camp Properties, Incorporated, a corporation existing under the laws of the State of
Louisiana.
(2)
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
2.
Authorization to sell land
(a)
Authorization
Subject to valid existing rights and subsection (b), the Secretary is authorized to sell by
quitclaim deed the following lands in the State of Louisiana at public or
private sale, including by competitive sale by auction, bid or otherwise:
(1)
All federally owned lands within section 9, Township 10 North, Range 5 West, in Winn Parish,
Louisiana.
(2)
A parcel of land consisting of 2.16 acres situated in the SW¼ of section 4, Township 10 North,
Range 5 West, Winn Parish, Louisiana, as more specifically depicted on a
certificate of survey dated March 7, 2007, by Glen L. Cannon, P.L.S. 4436.
(b)
First right of purchase
Subject to valid existing rights and the provisions of section 4, for a period of 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, upon tender of consideration from the
Collins Camp Properties, the Secretary shall sell and quitclaim to said
corporation all right, title and interest of the United States in—
(1)
up to 47.92 acres within section 9, Township 10 North, Range 5 West, in Winn Parish, Louisiana, as
generally depicted on a certificate of survey dated February 28, 2007, by
Glen L. Cannon, P.L.S. 4436, said land comprising the Collins Campsites;
and
(2)
the 2.16 acres described in subsection (a)(2).
(c)
Terms and conditions
The Secretary may configure the lands to maximize marketability or achieve management objectives,
and may prescribe such terms and conditions on the land sales authorized
by this Act as the Secretary deems in the public interest.
(d)
Consideration
Land sales authorized by this Act shall be for cash consideration equal to the market value of the
land.
(e)
Market value
The market value of the land sold under this Act shall be as determined by an appraisal approved by
the Secretary and done in conformity with the Uniform Appraisal Standards
for Federal Land Acquisitions; or, if sold by means other than that
provided in subsection (b), market value may be determined by competitive
sale.
(f)
Hazardous substances
(1)
In any disposal of lands authorized by this Act, the Secretary shall meet disclosure requirements
for hazardous substances, but shall otherwise not be required to remediate
or abate those substances.
(2)
Nothing in this section shall otherwise affect the application of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
CERCLA
,
42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.
) to conveyances of lands out of Federal ownership.
3.
Proceeds from the sale of land
(a)
Deposit of receipts
The consideration received by the Secretary for the sale of land under this Act shall be deposited
into the account in the Treasury of the United States established by
Public Law 90–171
(commonly known as the Sisk Act;
16 U.S.C. 484a
).
(b)
Use of funds
Monies deposited pursuant to subsection (a) shall be available to the Secretary until expended,
without further appropriation, for the acquisition of lands and interests
in land in the Kisatchie National Forest in Louisiana.
4.
Miscellaneous provisions
(a)
Costs
The Secretary shall require the Collins Camp Properties to pay at closing the reasonable costs of
appraisal and any administrative and environmental analyses required by
law or regulation.
(b)
Permits
An offer by Collins Camp Properties shall be accompanied by written statements from holders of
Forest Service special use authorizations agreeing to relinquish their
authorizations upon a sale to Collins Camp Properties. For any holder not
providing such written authorization, the Secretary shall require the
Collins Camp Properties to administer such authorization according to its
terms until the date of expiration.
