1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Emigrant Wilderness Historical Use Preservation Act of 2013
.
2.
Purpose
It is the purpose of this Act to ensure that—
(1)
an increasing population within the vicinity of the Emigrant Wilderness of Stanislaus National Forest in the State of California does not cause the Emigrant Wilderness to lose its untrammeled and unimpaired wilderness character;
(2)
the Federal land comprising the Emigrant Wilderness retains the types of activities and level of access the land had when the land was designated as wilderness; and
(3)
future generations of Americans continue to have the opportunity for a true wilderness experience consistent with what existed when the Emigrant Wilderness was designated.
3.
Continuation of historical activities and access to Federal land comprising Emigrant Wilderness, Stanislaus National Forest, California
(a)
In general
This section modifies and supplements the provisions of law otherwise applicable to the Emigrant Wilderness of Stanislaus National Forest in the State of California, as originally designated by section 2(b) of
Public Law 93–632
(88 Stat. 2154;
16 U.S.C. 1132
note) and expanded by section 101(a)(9) of
Public Law 98–425
(98 Stat. 1620;
16 U.S.C. 1132
note) (in this section referred to as the
Emigrant Wilderness
).
(b)
Preservation of historical activities and level of use
The Secretary of Agriculture shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that, within the area designated as the Emigrant Wilderness, the level of use, allotted user days, and activities by commercial outfitters and guides within that area shall not rise above or be restricted below the historical level of use, allotted user days, and activities by commercial outfitters and guides within that area that existed as of the date of the original designation of the Emigrant Wilderness on January 3, 1975.
(c)
Types of activities and impact
The historical use and activities in the Emigrant Wilderness, including commercial outfitting and guiding, camping, pack stock grazing, and campfires, are traditional uses that are consistent with and part of an unconfined recreational experience, and the signs of use created by these historical uses are to be considered substantially unnoticeable and acceptable as long as they do not exceed the level present at the time of wilderness designation. The Secretary of Agriculture shall take such actions to ensure that these traditional uses neither exceed nor are restricted below the level of use at the time the Emigrant Wilderness was designated, as required by subsection (b).
(d)
Commercial pack and saddle stock use
Because commercial pack and saddle stock use existed at the time the Emigrant Wilderness was designated, the level of this use at the time of designation is the extent necessary for these traditional activities and will not be allowed to exceed or be reduced below the highest level of such use in the preceding 10 years.
(e)
Historical use of trails, roads, paths, campsites, meadows, and cross-Country areas
The historical use of trails, roads, paths, campsites, meadows, and cross-country areas in the Emigrant Wilderness by recreational and commercial pack and saddle stock, including horses, mules, donkeys, and ponies, shall be allowed to continue. The uses include travel on designated system trails and historic user trails, as well as cross-country travel, grazing, camping, campsites, and campfires.
(f)
Drift fences
The use of drift fences that are in existence as of the date of the enactment of this Act or were previously in existence at the time of designation of the Emigrant Wilderness shall be allowed and maintained.
