1.
Short title
This bill shall be called the
National Petroleum Reserve Alaska
Access Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
and reaffirming national policy for the National Petroleum Reserve in
Alaska
It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1)
the National
Petroleum Reserve in Alaska remains explicitly designated, both in name and
legal status, for purposes of providing oil and natural gas resources to the
United States; and
(2)
accordingly, the national policy is to
actively advance oil and gas development within the Reserve by facilitating the
expeditious exploration, production, and transportation of oil and natural gas
from and through the Reserve.
3.
National
Petroleum Reserve in Alaska: lease sales
Section 107(a) of the Naval Petroleum
Reserves Production Act of 1976 (
42 U.S.C. 6506a(a)
) is amended to read as
follows:
(a)
In
General
The Secretary shall
conduct an expeditious program of competitive leasing of oil and gas in the
reserve in accordance with this Act. Such program shall include at least one
lease sale annually in those areas of the reserve most likely to produce
commercial quantities of oil and natural gas each year in the period 2013
through
2023.
.
4.
National
Petroleum Reserve in Alaska: planning and permitting pipeline and road
construction
(a)
In
general
Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with
other appropriate Federal agencies, shall facilitate and ensure permits, in a
timely and environmentally responsible manner, for all surface development
activities, including for the construction of pipelines and roads, necessary
to—
(1)
develop and bring
into production any areas within the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska that
are subject to oil and gas leases; and
(2)
transport oil and gas from and through the
National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska in the most direct manner possible to
existing transportation or processing infrastructure on the North Slope of
Alaska.
(b)
Timeline
The Secretary shall ensure that any Federal
permitting agency shall issue permits in accordance with the following
timeline:
(1)
Permits for such construction for
transportation of oil and natural gas produced under existing Federal oil and
gas leases with respect to which the Secretary has issued a permit to drill
shall be approved within 60 days after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(2)
Permits for such construction for
transportation of oil and natural gas produced under Federal oil and gas leases
shall be approved within 6 months after the submission to the Secretary of a
request for a permit to drill.
(c)
Plan
To ensure timely future development of the
Reserve, within 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress a plan for approved
rights-of-way for a plan for pipeline, road, and any other surface
infrastructure that may be necessary infrastructure that will ensure that all
leasable tracts in the Reserve are within 25 miles of an approved road and
pipeline right-of-way that can serve future development of the Reserve.
5.
Issuance of a new
integrated activity plan and environmental impact statement
(a)
Issuance of new
integrated activity plan
The
Secretary of the Interior shall, within 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, issue—
(1)
a
new proposed integrated activity plan from among the non-adopted alternatives
in the National Petroleum Reserve Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of
Decision issued by the Secretary of the Interior and dated February 21, 2013;
and
(2)
an environmental
impact statement under section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy
Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)
) for issuance of oil and gas leases in the
National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska to promote efficient and maximum development
of oil and natural gas resources of such reserve.
(b)
Nullification of
existing record of decision, IAP, and EIS
Except as provided in
subsection (a), the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska Integrated Activity Plan
Record of Decision issued by the Secretary of the Interior and dated February
21, 2013, including the integrated activity plan and environmental impact
statement referred to in that record of decision, shall have no force or
effect.
6.
Departmental
accountability for development
The Secretary of the Interior shall issue
regulations not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act
that establish clear requirements to ensure that the Department of the Interior
is supporting development of oil and gas leases in the National Petroleum
Reserve-Alaska.
7.
Deadlines under
new proposed integrated activity plan
At a minimum, the new proposed integrated
activity plan issued under section 5(a)(1) shall—
(1)
require the
Department of the Interior to respond within 5 business days to a person who
submits an application for a permit for development of oil and natural gas
leases in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska acknowledging receipt of such
application; and
(2)
establish a
timeline for the processing of each such application, that—
(A)
specifies
deadlines for decisions and actions on permit applications; and
(B)
provide that the
period for issuing each permit after submission of such an application shall
not exceed 60 days without the concurrence of the applicant.
8.
Updated resource
assessment
(a)
In
general
The Secretary of the Interior shall complete a
comprehensive assessment of all technically recoverable fossil fuel resources
within the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, including all conventional and
unconventional oil and natural gas.
(b)
Cooperation and
consultation
The resource assessment required by subsection (a)
shall be carried out by the United States Geological Survey in cooperation and
consultation with the State of Alaska and the American Association of Petroleum
Geologists.
(c)
Timing
The
resource assessment required by subsection (a) shall be completed within 24
months of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Funding
The
United States Geological Survey may, in carrying out the duties under this
section, cooperatively use resources and funds provided by the State of
Alaska.
