1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Northern Route Approval
Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
To maintain our Nation’s competitive edge
and ensure an economy built to last, the United States must have fast,
reliable, resilient, and environmentally sound means of moving energy. In a
global economy, we will compete for the world’s investments based in
significant part on the quality of our infrastructure. Investing in the
Nation’s infrastructure provides immediate and long-term economic benefits for
local communities and the Nation as a whole.
(2)
The delivery of
oil from Canada, a close ally not only in proximity but in shared values and
ideals, to domestic markets is in the national interest because of the need to
lessen dependence upon insecure foreign sources.
(3)
The Keystone XL pipeline would provide both
short-term and long-term employment opportunities and related labor income
benefits, such as government revenues associated with taxes.
(4)
The State of Nebraska has thoroughly
reviewed and approved the proposed Keystone XL pipeline reroute, concluding
that the concerns of Nebraskans have had a major influence on the pipeline
reroute and that the reroute will have minimal environmental impacts.
(5)
The Department of
State and other Federal agencies have over a long period of time conducted
extensive studies and analysis of the technical aspects and of the
environmental, social, and economic impacts of the proposed Keystone XL
pipeline.
(6)
The transportation
of oil via pipeline is the safest and most economically and environmentally
effective means of doing so.
(7)
The Keystone XL is in much the same
position today as the Alaska Pipeline in 1973 prior to congressional action.
Once again, the Federal regulatory process remains an insurmountable obstacle
to a project that is likely to reduce oil imports from insecure foreign
sources.
3.
Keystone XL
permit approval
Notwithstanding Executive Order No. 13337 (3
U.S.C. 301 note), Executive Order No. 11423 (
3 U.S.C. 301
note), section 301 of
title 3, United States Code, and any other Executive order or provision of law,
no Presidential permit shall be required for the pipeline described in the
application filed on May 4, 2012, by TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, L.P. to the
Department of State for the Keystone XL pipeline, as supplemented to include
the Nebraska reroute evaluated in the Final Evaluation Report issued by the
Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality in January 2013 and approved by
the Nebraska governor. The final environmental impact statement issued by the
Secretary of State on August 26, 2011, coupled with the Final Evaluation Report
described in the previous sentence, shall be considered to satisfy all
requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.) and of the National Historic Preservation Act (
16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.
).
4.
Judicial
review
(a)
Exclusive
jurisdiction
Except for
review by the Supreme Court on writ of certiorari, the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit shall have original and exclusive
jurisdiction to determine—
(1)
the validity of any final order or action
(including a failure to act) of any Federal agency or officer with respect to
issuance of a permit relating to the construction or maintenance of the
Keystone XL pipeline, including any final order or action deemed to be taken,
made, granted, or issued;
(2)
the constitutionality of any provision of
this Act, or any decision or action taken, made, granted, or issued, or deemed
to be taken, made, granted, or issued under this Act; or
(3)
the adequacy of any environmental impact
statement prepared under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), or of any analysis under any other Act, with respect to
any action taken, made, granted, or issued, or deemed to be taken, made,
granted, or issued under this Act.
(b)
Deadline for
filing claim
A claim arising
under this Act may be brought not later than 60 days after the date of the
decision or action giving rise to the claim.
(c)
Expedited
consideration
The United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit shall set any
action brought under subsection (a) for expedited consideration, taking into
account the national interest of enhancing national energy security by
providing access to the significant oil reserves in Canada that are needed to
meet the demand for oil.
5.
American burying
beetle
(a)
Findings
The Congress finds that—
(1)
environmental
reviews performed for the Keystone XL pipeline project satisfy the requirements
of section 7 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1536(a)(2)
) in
its entirety; and
(2)
for purposes of that Act, the Keystone XL
pipeline project will not jeopardize the continued existence of the American
burying beetle or destroy or adversely modify American burying beetle critical
habitat.
(b)
Biological
opinion
The Secretary of the
Interior is deemed to have issued a written statement setting forth the
Secretary’s opinion containing such findings under section 7(b)(1)(A) of the
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1536(b)(1)(A)
) and any taking of the
American burying beetle that is incidental to the construction or operation and
maintenance of the Keystone XL pipeline as it may be ultimately defined in its
entirety, shall not be considered a prohibited taking of such species under
such Act.
6.
Right-of-way and
temporary use permit
The
Secretary of the Interior is deemed to have granted or issued a grant of
right-of-way and temporary use permit under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing
Act (
30 U.S.C. 185
) and the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), as set forth in the application tendered to the Bureau of
Land Management for the Keystone XL pipeline.
7.
Permits for
activities in navigable waters
(a)
Issuance of
permits
The Secretary of the Army, not later than 90 days after
receipt of an application therefor, shall issue all permits under section 404
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1344
) and section 10 of
the Act of March 3, 1899 (
33 U.S.C. 403
; commonly known as the Rivers and
Harbors Appropriations Act of 1899), necessary for the construction, operation,
and maintenance of the pipeline described in the May 4, 2012, application
referred to in section 3, as supplemented by the Nebraska reroute. The
application shall be based on the administrative record for the pipeline as of
the date of enactment of this Act, which shall be considered complete.
(b)
Waiver of
procedural requirements
The Secretary may waive any procedural
requirement of law or regulation that the Secretary considers desirable to
waive in order to accomplish the purposes of this section.
(c)
Issuance in
absence of action by the Secretary
If the Secretary has not
issued a permit described in subsection (a) on or before the last day of the
90-day period referred to in subsection (a), the permit shall be deemed issued
under section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1344
)
or section 10 of the Act of March 3, 1899 (
33 U.S.C. 403
), as appropriate, on
the day following such last day.
(d)
Limitation
The
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may not prohibit or
restrict an activity or use of an area that is authorized under this
section.
8.
Migratory Bird
Treaty Act permit
The
Secretary of the Interior is deemed to have issued a special purpose permit
under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (
16 U.S.C. 703 et seq.
), as described in
the application filed with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for the
Keystone XL pipeline on January 11, 2013.
