1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Southwest Border Protection Act of 2014
.
2.
Activation and deployment of members of the National Guard to support Department of Homeland
Security border control activities along international border between the
United States and Mexico
(a)
Expanded deployment of National Guard
At the request of a Governor of a State that shares a portion of the international border between
the United States and Mexico, the Secretary of Defense shall order to
active duty, and provide for the deployment of, members of the National
Guard along such border to assist United States Customs and Border
Protection in achieving operational control of such border.
(b)
Number of Guardsmen deployed
At least 10,000 members of the National Guard shall be ordered to active duty and deployed under
the authority of this section along the international border between the
United States and Mexico. Members ordered to active duty and deployed
under the authority of this section shall be in addition to the number of
members of the National Guard so deployed along such border as of the date
of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Duration
The deployment of members of the National Guard under the authority of this section in a State that
shares a portion of the international border between the United States and
Mexico shall continue until the earlier of the following:
(1)
The date on which the Secretary of Homeland Security certifies that the Federal Government has
achieved operational control of such border.
(2)
The date on which the Governor of the State withdraws the request made under subsection (a).
(d)
Exemption from end strengths and other limitations
Members of the National Guard deployed under the authority of this section shall not be counted
toward—
(1)
any limits on end strength; or
(2)
limits on the number of National Guard personnel that may be placed on active duty for operational
support.
(e)
Operational control defined
In this section, the term
operational control
has the meaning given that term in section 2(b) of the Secure Fence Act of 2006 (Public Law
109–367;
8 U.S.C. 1701
note).
