2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. Res. 275) condemning the horrific shootings in Atlanta, Georgia, on March 16, 2021, and reaffirming the House of Representative's commitment to combating hate, bigotry, and violence against the Asian-American and Pacific Islander community. The resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Reform or their respective designees.
3.
House Resolution 398 is hereby adopted.
4.
House Resolution 188, agreed to March 8, 2021 (as amended by House Resolution 330, agreed to April 20, 2021), is amended by striking
May 20, 2021
each place it appears and inserting (in each instance)
July 1, 2021
.
5.
(a)
At any time through the legislative day of Thursday, May 20, 2021, the Speaker may entertain motions offered by the Majority Leader or a designee that the House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV with respect to multiple measures described in subsection (b), and the Chair shall put the question on any such motion without debate or intervening motion.
(b)
A measure referred to in subsection (a) includes any measure that was the object of a motion to suspend the rules on the legislative day of May 17, 2021, or May 18, 2021, in the form as so offered, on which the yeas and nays were ordered and further proceedings postponed pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX.
(c)
Upon the offering of a motion pursuant to subsection (a) concerning multiple measures, the ordering of the yeas and nays on postponed motions to suspend the rules with respect to such measures is vacated to the end that all such motions are considered as withdrawn.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
