1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Water Conservation Rebate Tax Parity Act
.
2.
Exclusion of amounts received from a water department for water conservation efficiency measures and water runoff management improvements
(a)
In general
Part III of subchapter B of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 139E the following new section:
139F.
Water conservation efficiency measures and water runoff management improvements
(a)
In general
Gross income shall not include the value of any water conservation and efficiency measure or water runoff management improvement (or any subsidy, rebate, or other amount for such a measure or improvement) received directly or indirectly from a water department.
(b)
Denial of double benefit
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subtitle, no deduction or credit shall be allowed for, or by reason of, any expenditure to the extent of the amount excluded under subsection (a) for any subsidy, rebate or other amount which was provided with respect to such expenditure. The adjusted basis of any property shall be reduced by the amount excluded under subsection (a) which was provided with respect to such property.
(c)
Definitions
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Water conservation and efficiency measure
The term
water conservation and efficiency measure
means any evaluation of water use, or any installation or modification of property, the primary purpose of which is to reduce consumption of water or to improve the management of water demand with respect to one or more dwelling units.
(2)
Water runoff management improvement
The term
water runoff management improvement
means any installation or modification of property the primary purpose of which is to reduce or manage storm water runoff with respect to one or more dwelling units.
(3)
Water department
The term
water department
means any entity (including a public or private utility, the Federal Government, a State or local government or any political subdivision thereof, or any instrumentality of the foregoing) engaged in—
(A)
the provision of water to the public through pipes or other constructed conveyances, or
(B)
the collection, treatment, management, or disposal of stormwater or wastewater generated by the public.
(4)
Dwelling unit
The term
dwelling unit
has the meaning given such term by section 280A(f)(1).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for part III of subchapter B of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 139E the following new item:
Sec. 139F. Water conservation efficiency measures and water runoff management improvements.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014.
(d)
No inference regarding proper tax treatment
Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act shall be construed to create any inference with respect to the proper tax treatment of any subsidy or rebate received directly or indirectly from a water department for any water conservation and efficiency measure or water runoff management improvement in any taxable year ending on or before the date of the enactment of this Act.
