1.
Short Title
This Act may be cited as the
Students Helping Young Students Act of 2015
.
2.
Work-Study Program
Section 443 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 2753
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(f)
After-School Activities
(1)
Use of Funds
In any academic year to which subsection (b)(2)(A) applies, an institution shall ensure that funds granted to such institution under this section are used in accordance with such subsection to compensate students employed in after-school activities of eligible schools.
(2)
Registration Process
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the
Students Helping Young Students Act of 2015
, the Secretary shall inform eligible schools about the work-study program described in paragraph (1), and establish and carry out a process for eligible schools to register to participate in such program.
(3)
Implementation
The Secretary shall establish any standards necessary for participation in—
(A)
the work-study program described in paragraph (1); and
(B)
the registration process described in paragraph (2).
(4)
Priority for Schools
To the extent practicable, an institution shall—
(A)
give priority to eligible schools serving a low-income community; and
(B)
ensure that any student compensated with funds described in paragraph (1) receives appropriate training to carry out the educational services required.
(5)
Federal Share
The Federal share of the compensation for work-study students compensated under this subsection may exceed 75 percent.
(6)
Definitions
For purposes of this subsection:
(A)
The term
after-school activities
means activities that take place after school, before school, or out of school (in the summer or during other vacations) that have an educational purpose, and includes such activities administered by—
(i)
an eligible school; or
(ii)
a community-based learning center, or center that facilitates youth development activities, that partners with an eligible school.
(B)
The terms
elementary school
and
secondary school
have the meanings given the terms in section 9101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(C)
The term
eligible school
means a public elementary school or secondary school.
(D)
The term
low-income community
has the meaning given the term in section 428K(g)(6).
.
