1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Architect of the Capitol Administrative Operations Improvement Act of 2016
.
2.
Working Capital Fund for Architect of the Capitol
(a)
Establishment
There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a working capital fund (hereafter in this section referred to as the
Fund
) for the Architect of the Capitol.
(b)
Availability of Amounts
Amounts in the Fund shall be available to the Architect of the Capitol for such common agency services, activities, equipment, and other common costs as the Architect determines to be appropriate, efficient, and economical. The Fund shall also be available for construction, capital repairs, renovations, rehabilitation, maintenance of real property, and similar agency expenses, on a reimbursable basis within the Architect of the Capitol.
(c)
Contents
The capital of the Fund consists of—
(1)
amounts appropriated to the Fund;
(2)
the reasonable value of stocks of supplies, equipment, and other assets and inventories on order that the Architect transfers to the fund, less related liabilities and unpaid obligations;
(3)
receipts from the sale or exchange of property held in the Fund;
(4)
all miscellaneous receipts compensating the Architect of the Capitol for loss or damage to any Government property under the Architect's jurisdiction or care, including but not limited to the United States Botanic Garden;
(5)
reimbursements pursuant to subsection (d); and
(6)
amounts transferred to the Fund pursuant to subsection (e).
(d)
Reimbursement
The Fund shall be reimbursed from available accounts of the Architect of the Capitol for supplies, materials, services, and related expenses, at rates which will approximate the full cost of operations, including—
(1)
accrual of employee leave and benefits;
(2)
depreciation of plant, property, and equipment; and
(3)
overhead.
(e)
Transfers from other accounts
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Architect is authorized to transfer amounts from other available Architect of the Capitol accounts to the Fund as the Architect determines to be appropriate, efficient, and economical.
(f)
Continuing availability of funds
Amounts in the Fund are available without regard to fiscal year limitation.
3.
House Office Buildings shuttle service
The Architect of the Capitol may use funds appropriated or otherwise made available under the heading
Architect of the Capitol, House Office Buildings
in any Act making appropriations for the legislative branch for a fiscal year for the purchase or rental, maintenance, and operation of passenger motor vehicles to provide shuttle service for Members and employees of Congress to and from the House Office Buildings.
4.
Use of expired funds for making unemployment compensation payments
Available balances of expired Architect of the Capitol appropriations shall be available to the Architect of the Capitol for reimbursing the Secretary of Labor for any amounts paid with respect to unemployment compensation payments for former employees of the Architect of the Capitol, without regard to the fiscal year for which the obligation to make such payments is incurred.
5.
Effective date
This Act shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2017 and each succeeding fiscal year.
