1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Export Freedom to Cuba Act of 2015
.
2.
Travel to Cuba
(a)
Freedom of travel for United States citizens and legal residents
Subject to section 3, travel to and from Cuba by individuals who are citizens or residents of the United States, and any transactions incident to such travel as specified in subsection (b), may not be regulated or prohibited if such travel would be lawful in the United States.
(b)
Transactions incident to travel
The transactions referred to in subsection (a) include, but are not limited to—
(1)
any transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from Cuba, including the importation into Cuba or the United States of accompanied baggage for personal use only;
(2)
any transactions ordinarily incident to travel or maintenance within Cuba, including the payment of living expenses and the acquisition of goods or services for personal use;
(3)
any transactions ordinarily incident to the arrangement, promotion, or facilitation of travel to, from, or within Cuba;
(4)
any transactions incident to nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages, except that this paragraph does not authorize the carriage of articles into Cuba or the United States except accompanied baggage; and
(5)
normal banking transactions incident to the activities described in the preceding provisions of this subsection, including the issuance, clearing, processing, or payment of checks, drafts, travelers checks, credit or debit card instruments, or similar instruments.
3.
Exception
The restrictions on authority described in section 2 shall not apply in a case in which—
(1)
the United States is at war with Cuba;
(2)
armed hostilities between the two countries are in progress; or
(3)
there is imminent danger to the public health or the physical safety of United States travelers.
4.
Applicability
This Act applies to actions taken by the President before the date of the enactment of this Act which are in effect on such date, and to actions taken on or after such date.
5.
Inapplicability of other provisions
This Act applies notwithstanding section 102(h) of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (
22 U.S.C. 6032(h)
) and section 910(b) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7209(b)
).
