1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Integrated Transportation and Economic Development Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
National goals
The national goals of the Federal-aid highway program are prescribed in section 150 of title 23, United States Code, as follows:
(A)
Safety
To achieve a significant reduction in traffic fatalities and serious injuries on all public roads.
(B)
Infrastructure condition
To maintain the highway infrastructure asset system in a state of good repair.
(C)
Congestion reduction
To achieve a significant reduction in congestion on the National Highway System.
(D)
System reliability
To improve the efficiency of the surface transportation system.
(E)
Freight movement and economic vitality
To improve the national freight network, strengthen the ability of rural communities to access national and international trade markets, and support regional economic development.
(F)
Environmental sustainability
To enhance the performance of the transportation system while protecting and enhancing the natural environment.
(G)
Reduced project delivery delays
To reduce project costs, promote jobs and the economy, and expedite the movement of people and goods by accelerating project completion through eliminating delays in the project development and delivery process, including reducing regulatory burdens and improving agencies’ work practices.
(2)
Performance measures
Section 150 of title 23, United States Code, requires the Secretary of Transportation to establish performance measures for States to use to assess progress towards the achievement of the national goals of the Federal-aid highway program.
(3)
Performance targets
Section 150 of such title also requires each State to set performance targets that reflect the performance measures established by the Secretary of Transportation and to submit periodic reports to the Secretary that describe progress in achieving the performance targets.
(4)
Equitable distribution
It is important that both urban and rural communities in the United States benefit from the Federal-aid highway program and receive an equitable distribution of Federal transportation funds.
(5)
Importance of public roads and highways for economically distressed urban communities
Public roads and highways that are safe, reliable, and in a state of good repair are especially important for economically distressed urban communities.
(6)
Needs of economically distressed urban communities
Not one of the national goals of the Federal-aid highway program mention the needs of economically distressed urban communities.
(7)
New goal
The national goals of the Federal-aid highway program need to be amended to include a goal to improve road conditions in economically distressed urban communities and increase access to jobs, markets, and economic opportunities for people who live in these communities.
3.
New national goal, performance measure, performance target
(a)
National goal
Section 150(b) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Integrated economic development
To improve road conditions in economically distressed urban communities and increase access to jobs, markets, and economic opportunities for people who live in such communities.
.
(b)
Performance measure
Section 150(c) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:
(7)
Integrated economic development
The Secretary shall establish measures for States to use to assess the conditions, accessibility, and reliability of roads in economically distressed urban communities.
.
(c)
Performance target
Section 150(d)(1) of such title is amended by striking
and (6)
and inserting
(6), and (7)
.
