1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Kerry Rose Fire Sprinkler Notification Act
.
2.
Fire safety report
Section 485(i) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1092(i)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting
automatic
before
fire sprinkler
;
(B)
by striking
and
at the end of subparagraph (D);
(C)
by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting a semicolon; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following:
(F)
the number and percentage of beds at student housing facilities not protected by an automatic fire sprinkler system in the bedroom; and
(G)
the number and percentage of beds at student housing facilities protected by an automatic fire sprinkler system in the bedroom.
;
(2)
in paragraph (4)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); and
(C)
by inserting after subparagraph (A), the following:
(B)
make available to the public statistics on the number and percentage, in the aggregate and disaggregated by each State, of—
(i)
student housing facilities at eligible institutions with less than 100 percent of beds protected by an automatic fire sprinkler system in the bedroom;
(ii)
student housing facilities at eligible institutions with less than 50 percent of beds protected by an automatic fire sprinkler system in the bedroom;
(iii)
beds at student housing facilities at eligible institutions protected by an automatic fire sprinkler system in the bedroom; and
(iv)
beds at student housing facilities at eligible institutions not protected by an automatic fire sprinkler system in the bedroom; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Definition
For purposes of this subsection:
(A)
Student housing facility
The term
student housing facility
includes facilities that are campus facilities and facilities that are noncampus buildings or properties.
(B)
Campus and noncampus building or property
The terms
campus
and
noncampus building or property
have the meanings given the terms in section 668.46(a) of title 34, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).
.
3.
Fire safety
Section 487(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1094(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(30)
In the case of an institution that maintains student housing facilities (as defined in section 485(i)(8)), the institution will—
(A)
include in all materials (including electronic materials) relating to such facilities, information that describes whether such facilities are equipped with a student housing facility fire safety system, which includes an automatic fire sprinkler system in each bedroom;
(B)
notify each student selecting such a facility during a student housing facility selection process, in writing and during such selection process, whether the facility is equipped with a student housing facility fire safety system, which includes an automatic fire sprinkler system in each bedroom; and
(C)
notify each student who plans to live in such a facility, in writing and on the date that the student moves into the facility, whether the facility is equipped with a student housing facility fire safety system, which includes an automatic fire sprinkler system in each bedroom, and how such system is described in subparagraph (B) of section 485(i)(1) for purposes of the fire safety report required under such section.
.
