1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Superstorm Sandy Relief Act of 2015
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
In 2012, Superstorm Sandy caused substantial physical and economic damage to the United States, and
New York in particular.
(2)
For businesses and homeowners, the primary means of obtaining long-term Federal financial
assistance in the wake of disasters such as Superstorm Sandy is through
the Small Business Administration’s Disaster Loan Program.
(3)
With regard to the Small Business Administration’s operation of the Disaster Loan Program after
Superstorm Sandy, the Government Accountability Office found that the
Administration did not meet its timeliness goals for processing business
loan applications.
(4)
According to the Government Accountability Office, the Small Business Administration stated that it
was challenged by an unexpectedly high volume of loan applications that it
received early in its response to Superstorm Sandy.
(5)
As a result, many businesses and homeowners affected by Superstorm Sandy were unable to apply for
financing from the Small Business Administration.
3.
Disaster loans for businesses, homeowners, and renters affected by Superstorm Sandy
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small
Business Administration shall establish and carry out a loan program under
which a small business concern, homeowner, or renter that was located
within an area and during the time period with respect to which a major
disaster was declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170
) by
reason of Superstorm Sandy may apply—
(1)
for a loan to repair, rehabilitate, or replace property damaged or destroyed by reason of
Superstorm Sandy; or
(2)
if such a small business concern has suffered substantial economic injury by reason of Superstorm
Sandy, for a loan to assist such a small business concern.
(b)
Requirements
To carry out the program described in subsection (a), the Administrator shall use the same
application, selection, and notice requirements and procedures that are
used under section 7(b) of the Small Business Act Section 7(b) (15 U.S.C.
636(b)).
(c)
Timing
The Administrator shall select loan recipients and make available loans under this Act for a period
of not less than 1 year after the date on which the Administrator
establishes the program.
