1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Wasteful Bonuses in Department of Veterans Affairs Act of 2015
or the
VA Bonus Accountability Act
.
2.
Limitation on bonuses for employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
In general
Chapter 7
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
714.
Limitation and repayment of bonuses
(a)
(1)
If the Comptroller General of the United States, the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or any other senior ethics official of the Department makes an adverse finding with respect to an employee of the Department, the Secretary, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, shall issue an order directing the employee to repay to the Department the amount of any bonus paid to the employee during the fiscal year in which the adverse finding is made.
(2)
If the Comptroller General of the United States, the Inspector General of the Department, or any other senior ethics official of the Department makes an adverse finding with respect to an employee under subsection (a), the Secretary may not award a bonus to such employee for a period of 5 years beginning on the last day of the fiscal year during which the adverse finding occurred.
(b)
In this section—
(1)
the term
adverse finding
with respect to an employee means a determination that the conduct of the employee—
(A)
violated a policy of the Department of Veterans Affairs for which the employee may be removed or suspended; or
(B)
violated a law for which the employee may be imprisoned for more than 1 year; and
(2)
the term
bonus
means any bonus or cash award, including—
(A)
an award under
chapter 45
of title 5;
(B)
an award under section 5384 of such title; and
(C)
a retention bonus under section 5754 of such title.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 7
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
714. Limitation and repayment of bonuses.
.
(c)
Application
The amendments made by this section shall apply to any bonus paid in fiscal year 2014 and each fiscal year thereafter.
