1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Increase Transportation Alternatives Investment Program
.
2.
Surface transportation block grant program
Section 133 of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(j)
Preference for certain projects
The Secretary through issuing regulations shall ensure that States give preference to eligible projects under this section located in areas that are undergoing extensive repair or reconstruction of Federal-aid highways, passenger rail, and other federally owned roads open for public travel, and public transportation, for the purpose of providing transportation alternatives related to the full or partial closure of transportation infrastructure in such areas.
.
3.
Grant Program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Transportation shall carry out a grant program to support community efforts to invest in transportation alternatives.
(b)
Award of grants
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall award grants under the program on a competitive basis. The Secretary shall give preference to projects located in areas that are undergoing extensive repair or reconstruction of Federal-aid highways, passenger rail, and other federally owned roads open for public travel, and public transportation.
(c)
Eligible entities
The following entities shall be eligible to receive grants under the program:
(1)
State and local governments.
(2)
Metropolitan planning organizations.
(3)
Rural planning organizations.
(d)
Eligible activities
Amounts received in grants under the program may be used to plan for, facilitate, and provide initial support for any of the following activities:
(1)
Transportation demand management programs, including support for transportation management associations.
(2)
Carpool or telecommuting projects.
(3)
Planning, design, acquisition of rights-of-way, construction, improvement, and management of streets, pathways, and public transportation facilities to facilitate expanded bicycle and pedestrian mobility and access.
(e)
Application
To receive a grant under the program, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form and manner as the Secretary prescribes.
