Section 1

.

Definitions

. As used in this order:

(a) "Buy American Laws" means all statutes, regulations, rules, and   relating to Federal procurement or Federal grants—including those that refer to "Buy America" or "Buy American"—that require, or provide a preference for, the purchase or acquisition of goods, products, or materials produced in  , including iron, steel, and manufactured goods.

(b) "Produced in  " means, for iron and steel products, that all manufacturing processes, from the initial melting stage through the application of coatings, occurred in  .

(c) "Petition beneficiaries" means aliens petitioned for by employers to become nonimmigrant visa holders with temporary work authorization under the H-1B visa program.

(d) "Waivers" means exemptions from or waivers of  , or the procedures and conditions used by an executive department or agency (agency) in granting exemptions from or waivers of  .

(e) "Workers in  " and "  workers" shall both be defined as provided at section 212(n)(4)(E) of   (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(4)(E)).

 . 2

.

Policy

. It shall be the policy of the executive branch to buy   and hire  .

(a)

Buy American Laws

. In order to promote economic and national security and to help stimulate economic growth, create good jobs at decent wages, strengthen our middle class, and support the   manufacturing and defense industrial bases, it shall be the policy of the executive branch to maximize, consistent with law, through terms and conditions of Federal financial assistance awards and Federal procurements, the use of goods, products, and materials produced in  .

(b)

 

. In order to create higher wages and employment rates for workers in  , and to protect their economic interests, it shall be the policy of the executive branch to rigorously enforce and administer the laws governing entry into   of workers from abroad, including section 212(a)(5) of   (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(5)).

 . 3

.

  According to  . (a) Every agency shall scrupulously monitor, enforce, and comply with  , to the extent they apply, and minimize the use of waivers, consistent with applicable law.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the heads of all agencies shall: (i) assess the monitoring of, enforcement of, implementation of, and compliance with   within their agencies;

(ii) assess the use of waivers within their agencies by type and impact on domestic jobs and manufacturing; and

(iii) develop and propose policies for their agencies to ensure that, to the extent permitted by law, Federal financial assistance awards and   procurements maximize the use of materials produced in  , including manufactured products; components of manufactured products; and materials such as steel, iron, aluminum, and cement.

(c) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   and the Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , and  , shall issue guidance to agencies about how to make the assessments and to develop the policies required by subsection (b) of this section.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the heads of all agencies shall submit findings made pursuant to the assessments required by subsection (b) of this section to the Secretary of   and the Director of  .

(e) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and   Representative shall assess the impacts of all   free trade agreements and   on the operation of  , including their impacts on the implementation of domestic procurement preferences.

(f) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and  , shall submit to the President a report on   that includes findings from subsections (b), (d), and (e) of this section. This report shall be submitted within   of the date of this order and shall include specific recommendations to strengthen implementation of  , including domestic procurement preference policies and programs. Subsequent reports on implementation of   Laws shall be submitted by each agency head   to the Secretary of   and the Director of  , on    , and  , and in   as directed by the Secretary of   and the Director of  . The Secretary of   shall submit to the President an   report based on these submissions beginning  .

 . 4

.

Judicious Use of Waivers

. (a) To the extent permitted by law, public interest waivers from   should be construed to ensure the maximum utilization of goods, products, and materials produced in  .

(b) To the extent permitted by law, determination of public interest waivers shall be made by the head of the agency with the authority over the Federal financial assistance award or Federal procurement under consideration.

(c) To the extent permitted by law, before granting a public interest waiver, the relevant agency shall take appropriate account of whether a significant portion of the cost advantage of a foreign-sourced product is the result of the use of dumped steel, iron, or manufactured goods

or the use of injuriously subsidized steel, iron, or manufactured goods, and it shall integrate any findings into its waiver determination as appropriate.

 . 5

.

Ensuring the Integrity of the Immigration System in   to "Hire American."

(a) In order to advance the policy outlined in section 2(b) of this order, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall, as soon as practicable, and consistent with applicable law, propose new rules and issue new guidance, to supersede or revise previous rules and guidance if appropriate, to protect the interests of   workers in the administration of our immigration system, including through the prevention of fraud or abuse.

(b) In order to promote the proper functioning of the   visa program, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall, as soon as practicable, suggest reforms to help ensure that   visas are awarded to the most-skilled or highest-paid petition beneficiaries.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof;

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals; or

(iii) existing rights or obligations under international agreements.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
