Section 1

.

Findings

.   must put the energy needs of   families and businesses first and continue implementing a plan that ensures energy security and economic vitality for   to come. The energy and minerals produced from lands and waters under   management are important to a vibrant economy and to our national security. Increased domestic energy production on   lands and waters strengthens the  's security and reduces reliance on imported energy. Moreover, low energy prices, driven by an increased   energy supply, will benefit   families and help reinvigorate   manufacturing and job growth. Finally, because   is one of the largest consumers of energy in  , domestic energy production also improves our  's military readiness.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It shall be the policy of   to encourage energy exploration and production, including on the Outer Continental Shelf, in order to maintain the  's position as a global energy leader and foster energy security and resilience for the benefit of the   people, while ensuring that any such activity is safe and environmentally responsible.

 . 3

.

Implementing an America-First Offshore Energy Strategy

. To carry out the policy set forth in section 2 of this order, the Secretary of the   shall:

(a) as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including the procedures set forth in   of title  , United States Code, in consultation with the Secretary of  , give full consideration to revising the schedule of proposed oil and gas lease sales, as described in that section, so that it includes, but is not limited to,   lease sales, to the maximum extent permitted by law, in each of the following  , as designated by   (BOEM) (Planning Areas): Western Gulf of Mexico, Central Gulf of Mexico,  , Beaufort Sea,  ,  , and South Atlantic;

(b) ensure that any revisions made pursuant to subsection (a) of this section do not hinder or affect ongoing lease sales currently scheduled as part of the  -2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program, as published on  ; and

(c) develop and implement, in coordination with the Secretary of   and to the maximum extent permitted by law, a streamlined permitting approach for privately funded seismic data research and collection aimed at expeditiously determining the offshore energy resource potential of   within  

 . 4

.

Responsible Planning for Future Offshore Energy Potential

. (a) The Secretary of Commerce shall, unless expressly required otherwise, refrain from designating or expanding any   under  , 16 U.S.C.  

et

seq

., unless the sanctuary designation or expansion proposal includes a timely, full accounting from   energy or mineral resource potential within the designated area—including offshore energy from wind, oil, natural gas, methane hydrates, and any other sources that the Secretary of   deems appropriate—and the potential impact the proposed designation or expansion will have on the development of those resources. The Secretary of the   shall provide any such accounting within   of receiving a notification of intent to propose any such   designation or expansion from the Secretary of  .

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of  , shall conduct a review of all designations and expansions of  , and of all designations and expansions of   under the Antiquities Act of  , recently recodified at sections   to 320303 of title  , United States Code, designated or expanded within the   period prior to the date of this order.

(i) The review under this subsection shall include:

(A) an analysis of the acreage affected and an analysis of the budgetary impacts of the costs of managing each   or   designation or expansion;

(B) an analysis of the adequacy of any required Federal, State, and tribal consultations conducted before the designations or expansions; and

(C) the opportunity costs associated with potential energy and mineral exploration and production from  , in addition to any impacts on production in the adjacent region.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , shall report the results of the review under this subsection to the Director of  , the Chairman of  , and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.
