Section 1

.

Purpose

. My Administration is committed to improving the health of all   by improving access to better care, including for the approximately 57 million   living in rural communities.   living in rural communities face unique challenges when seeking healthcare services, such as limited transportation opportunities, shortages of healthcare workers, and an inability to fully benefit from technological and care-delivery innovations. These factors have contributed to financial insecurity and impaired health outcomes for rural  , who are more likely to die from five leading causes, many of which are preventable, than their urban counterparts. That gap widened from   to   for cancer, heart disease, and chronic lower respiratory disease.

Since  ,   the Affordable Care Act was passed, 129 rural hospitals in   have closed. Predictably, financial distress is the strongest driver for risk of closure, and many rural hospitals lack sufficient patient volume to be sustainable under traditional healthcare-reimbursement mechanisms. From  , the average occupancy rate of a hospital that closed was only 22 percent. When hospitals close, the patient population around them carries an increased risk of mortality due to increased travel time and decreased access.

During the   public health emergency (PHE), hospitals curtailed elective medical procedures and access to in-person clinical care was limited. To help patients better access healthcare providers, my   implemented new flexibility regarding what services may be provided via telehealth, who may provide them, and in what circumstances, and the use of telehealth increased dramatically across the  . Internal analysis by   and   ( ) of   ( ) showed a   jump in virtual visits for   beneficiaries, from approximately 14,000 pre-PHE to almost 1.7 million in  . Additionally, a recent report by   shows that nearly half (43.5 percent) of   fee-for-service primary care visits were provided through telehealth in  , compared with far less than one percent (0.1 percent) in   before the  . Importantly, the report finds that telehealth visits continued to be frequent even after in-person primary care visits resumed in  , indicating that the expansion of telehealth services is likely to be a more permanent feature of the healthcare delivery system.

Rural healthcare providers, in particular, need these types of flexibilities to provide continuous care to patients in their communities. It is the purpose of this order to increase access to, improve the quality of, and improve the financial economics of rural healthcare, including by increasing access to high-quality care through telehealth.

 . 2

.

Launching an Innovative Payment Model to Enable Rural Healthcare Transformation

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   (Secretary) will announce a new model, pursuant to section   of   (   ), to test innovative payment mechanisms in order to ensure that rural healthcare providers are able to provide the necessary level and quality of care. This model should give rural providers flexibilities from existing   rules, establish predictable financial payments, and encourage the movement into high-quality, value-based care.

 . 3

.

Investments in  

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall, consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations, and in coordination with   and other executive departments and agencies, as appropriate, develop and implement a strategy to improve rural health by improving the physical and communications healthcare infrastructure available to rural  .

 . 4

.

Improving the Health of Rural Americans

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary shall submit a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, regarding existing and upcoming policy initiatives to:

(a) increase rural access to healthcare by eliminating regulatory burdens that limit the availability of clinical professionals;

(b) prevent disease and mortality by developing rural-specific efforts to drive improved health outcomes;

(c) reduce maternal mortality and morbidity; and

(d) improve mental health in rural communities.

 . 5

.

Expanding Flexibilities Beyond  

. Within   of this order, the Secretary shall review the following temporary measures put in place during the  , and shall propose a regulation to extend these measures, as appropriate, beyond the duration of the PHE:

(a) the additional telehealth services offered to   beneficiaries; and

(b) the services, reporting, staffing, and supervision flexibilities offered to   providers in rural areas.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
