Section 1

.

Purpose

. The   novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, which originated in  , continues to pose a significant threat to the health of   throughout  . As we have since  , with the proactive decision to limit travel from   and the passage of three massive economic relief packages, my Administration will take whatever steps are necessary to reduce the spread of   and maintain economic prosperity.

  ( ) of   have concluded that "growing and disproportionate unemployment rates for some racial and ethnic minority groups during the   pandemic may lead to greater risk of eviction and homelessness or sharing of housing."

This trend is concerning for many reasons, including that homeless shelters have proven to be particularly susceptible to outbreaks of  .   has observed that "[h]omelessness poses multiple challenges that can exacerbate and amplify the spread of  . Homeless shelters are often crowded, making social distancing difficult. Many persons experiencing homelessness are older or have underlying medical conditions, placing them at higher risk for severe COVID-19-associated illness." Increased shared housing is also potentially problematic to the extent it results in increased in-person interactions between older, higher-risk individuals and their younger relatives or friends.

My Administration has taken bold steps to help renters and homeowners have safe and secure places to call home during the   crisis. Prior to passage of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) (Public Law 116-136), the Secretary of   implemented a foreclosure and eviction moratorium for all single-family mortgages insured by  . Furthermore, prior to passage of the CARES Act,   ( ) announced that it had instructed   and   (the Enterprises) to suspend foreclosures for  .   has since announced that the   will extend the foreclosure suspension until  .

The CARES Act imposed a temporary moratorium on evictions of certain renters subject to certain conditions. That moratorium has now expired, and there is a significant risk that this will set off an abnormally large wave of evictions. With the failure of the   to act, my Administration must do all that it can to help vulnerable populations stay in their homes in the midst of this pandemic. Those who are dislocated from their homes may be unable to shelter in place and may have more difficulty maintaining a routine of social distancing. They will have to find alternative living arrangements, which may include a homeless shelter or a crowded family home and may also require traveling to other  .

In addition, evictions tend to disproportionately affect minorities, particularly   and Latinos. Unlike the  , I cannot sit idly and refuse to assist vulnerable   in need. Under my Administration, minorities achieved the lowest unemployment rates on record, and we will not let COVID-19 erase these gains by causing short-term dislocations that could well have long-term consequences.

Accordingly, my Administration, to the extent reasonably necessary to prevent the further spread of  , will take all lawful measures to prevent residential evictions and foreclosures resulting from financial hardships caused by  .

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to minimize, to the greatest extent possible, residential evictions and foreclosures during the ongoing   national emergency.

 . 3

.

 

. (a) The Secretary of   and the Director of   shall consider whether any measures temporarily halting residential evictions of any tenants for failure to pay rent are reasonably necessary to prevent the further spread of   from one   or possession into any other   or possession.

(b) The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall identify any and all available Federal funds to provide temporary financial assistance to renters and homeowners who, as a result of the financial hardships caused by  , are struggling to meet their   rental or mortgage obligations.

(c) The Secretary of   shall take action, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to promote the ability of renters and homeowners to avoid eviction or foreclosure resulting from financial hardships caused by  . Such action may include encouraging and providing assistance to public housing authorities, affordable housing owners, landlords, and recipients of Federal grant funds in minimizing evictions and foreclosures.

(d) In consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Director of FHFA shall review all existing authorities and resources that may be used to prevent evictions and foreclosures for renters and homeowners resulting from hardships caused by  .

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
