Section 1

.

Purpose

. Societies have long recognized the importance of beautiful public architecture.   and   public buildings were designed to be sturdy and useful, and also to beautify public spaces and inspire civic pride. Throughout the Middle Ages and the  , public architecture continued to serve these purposes. The   constitution of     required that "[w]hoever rules the City must have the beauty of the City as his foremost preoccupation . . . because it must provide pride, honor, wealth, and growth to the   citizens, as well as pleasure and happiness to visitors from abroad."  , the great   Architect Sir   declared that "public buildings [are] the ornament of a country. [Architecture] establishes a  , draws people and commerce, makes the people love their native country . . . Architecture aims at eternity[

.

]"

Notable Founding Fathers agreed with these assessments and attached great importance to Federal civic architecture. They wanted  's public buildings to inspire the   people and encourage civic virtue. President   and Secretary of     consciously modeled the most important buildings in  ,  , on the classical architecture of ancient   and  . They sought to use classical architecture to visually connect our contemporary Republic with the antecedents of democracy in classical antiquity, reminding citizens not only of their rights but also their responsibilities in maintaining and perpetuating its institutions.

  and   personally oversaw the competitions to design the Capitol Building and  . Under the direction and following the vision of these two founders,   designed the  's capital as a classical city. The promise of his design for the city was fulfilled by the    , which created the National Mall and   as we know them.

For   following  's founding,  's Federal architecture continued to be characterized by beautiful and beloved buildings of largely, though not exclusively, classical design. Examples include   in  ,  ,   in  ,  , and   in  ,  . In  ,  , classical buildings such as  ,  ,  ,  , and   have become iconic symbols of our system of government. These cherished landmarks, built to endure for  , have become an important part of our civic life.

In  ,   largely replaced traditional designs for new construction with modernist ones. This practice became official policy after   proposed what became known as  ) in  . The Guiding Principles implicitly discouraged classical and other traditional designs known for their beauty, declaring instead that the   should use "contemporary" designs.

The   architecture that ensued, overseen by   ( ), was often unpopular with  . The new buildings ranged from the undistinguished to designs even   now admits many in the public found unappealing. In  ,  , new Federal buildings visibly clashed with the existing classical architecture. Some of these structures, such as   and  , were controversial, attracting widespread criticism for their   designs.

In  ,   responded to this widespread criticism that the buildings it had been commissioning lacked distinction by establishing  . The   intended that program to advance the Guiding Principles' mandate that   architecture "provide visual testimony to the dignity, enterprise, vigor, and stability of  ." Unfortunately, the program has not met this goal.

Under  ,   has often selected designs by prominent architects with little regard for local input or regional aesthetic preferences. The resulting Federal architecture sometimes impresses the architectural elite, but not the   people who the buildings are meant to serve. Many of these new Federal buildings are not even visibly identifiable as civic buildings.

For example,   selected an architect to design   who describes his designs as "art-for-art's-sake" architecture, intended primarily for architects to appreciate. While elite architects praised the resulting building, many   consider it one of the ugliest structures in their city. Similarly,   selected a modernist architect to design   new   courthouse. The architectural establishment and its professional organizations praised his unique creation, but many local residents considered it ugly and inconsistent with its surroundings. In  ,  , a coalition of judges, court employees, and civic leaders opposed  's preferred modernist design for  . They believed it lacked the dignity a   courthouse should embody. The   nonetheless imposed this design over their objections.

With a limited number of exceptions, such as   and   and  ,   has largely stopped building beautiful buildings. In  ,  , Federal architecture has become a discordant mixture of classical and modernist designs.

It is time to update the policies guiding Federal architecture to address these problems and ensure that architects designing Federal buildings serve their clients, the   people. New Federal building designs should, like  's beloved landmark buildings, uplift and beautify public spaces, inspire the human spirit, ennoble  , command respect from the general public, and, as appropriate, respect the architectural heritage of a region. They should also be visibly identifiable as civic buildings and should be selected with input from the local community.

Classical and other traditional architecture, as practiced both historically and by  's architects, have proven their ability to meet these design criteria and to more than satisfy  's functional, technical, and sustainable needs. Their use should be encouraged instead of discouraged.

Encouraging classical and traditional architecture does not exclude using most other styles of architecture, where appropriate. Care must be taken, however, to ensure that all Federal building designs command respect of the general public for their beauty and visual embodiment of  's ideals.

 . 2

.

Policy

. (a) Applicable Federal public buildings should uplift and beautify public spaces, inspire the human spirit, ennoble  , and command respect from the general public. They should also be visually identifiable as civic buildings and, as appropriate, respect regional architectural heritage. Architecture—with particular regard for traditional and classical architecture—that meets the criteria set forth in this subsection is the preferred architecture for applicable Federal public buildings. In  , classical architecture shall be the preferred and default architecture for Federal public buildings absent exceptional factors necessitating another kind of architecture.

(b) Where the architecture of applicable Federal public buildings diverges from the preferred architecture set forth in subsection (a) of this section, great care and consideration must be taken to choose a design that commands respect from the general public and clearly conveys to the general public the dignity, enterprise, vigor, and stability of  's system of self-government.

(c) When renovating, reducing, or expanding applicable Federal public buildings that do not meet the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the feasibility and potential expense of building redesign to meet those criteria should be examined. Where feasible and economical, such redesign should be given substantial consideration, especially with regard to the building's exterior.

(d)   should seek input from the future users of applicable public buildings and the general public in the community where such buildings will be located before selecting an architectural firm or design style.

 . 3

.

Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) "Applicable Federal public building" means:

(i) all   courthouses and agency headquarters;

(ii) all Federal public buildings in  ; and

(iii) all other Federal public buildings that cost or are expected to cost more than $50 million in 2020 dollars to design, build, and finish, but does not include infrastructure projects or land ports of entry.

(b) "Brutalist" means the style of architecture that grew out of   modernist movement that is characterized by a massive and block-like appearance with a rigid geometric style and large-scale use of exposed poured concrete.

(c) "Classical architecture" means the architectural tradition derived from the forms, principles, and vocabulary of the architecture of   and   antiquity, and as later developed and expanded upon by such   architects as  ,  ,  , and  ; such Enlightenment masters as  ,  , and  ; such   architects as  ,  , and  ; and such   practitioners as  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and the firm of   and  . Classical architecture encompasses such styles as  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(d) "Deconstructivist" means the style of architecture generally known as "deconstructivism" that emerged during   that subverts the traditional values of architecture through such features as fragmentation, disorder, discontinuity, distortion, skewed geometry, and the appearance of instability.

(e) "General public" means members of the public who are not:

(i) artists, architects, engineers, art or architecture critics, instructors or professors of art or architecture, or members of the building industry; or (ii) affiliated with any interest group, trade association, or any other organization whose membership is financially affected by decisions involving the design, construction, or remodeling of public buildings.

(f) "Officer" has the meaning given that term in section   of title 5, United States Code.

(g) "Public building" has the meaning given that term in section 3301(a)(5) of title  , United States Code.

(h) "Traditional architecture" includes classical architecture, as defined herein, and also includes the historic humanistic architecture such as  ,  ,  ,    , and other Mediterranean styles of architecture historically rooted in various regions of  .

(i) "2020 dollars" means dollars adjusted for inflation using   Gross Domestic Product price deflator and using   as  .

 . 4

.

President's  

. (a) There is hereby established the President's  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of:

(i) all of the members of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  ;

(iii) the Architect of the Capitol;

(iv) the Commissioner of  ;

(v) the Chief Architect of GSA;

(vi) other officers or employees of   as the President may, from time to time, designate; and

(vii) up to 20 additional members appointed by the President from among citizens from outside   to provide diverse perspectives on the matters falling under the  's jurisdiction.

(c) The   shall be chaired by a member of   designated by the President. The   may designate a vice-chair and may establish subcommittees.

(d) The members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members of the  , while engaged in the work of the  , may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service, pursuant to sections 5701 through   of title 5, United States Code.

(e) To the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations,  ) shall provide such funding and administrative and technical support as the   may require. The Administrator shall, to the extent permitted by law, direct   staff to provide any relevant information the   requests and may detail such staff to aid the work of the  , at the request of the  .

(f) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the   under section 6 of that Act, shall be performed by the Administrator in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator.

(g) The   shall terminate on  , unless extended by the President. Members appointed under subsections ( ) and (b)(vii) of this section shall serve until the   terminates and shall not be removed except for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance.

 . 5

.

Responsibilities of the  

. The   shall:

(a) submit a report to the Administrator, recommending updates to  's policies and procedures to incorporate the policies of section 2 of this order and advance the purposes of this order. The report shall explain how the recommended changes accomplish these purposes. The report shall be submitted prior to  .

(b) recommend to the Administrator changes to   policies for situations in which the agency participates in a design selection pursuant to the Commemorative Works Act (chapter 89 of title  , United States Code), in furtherance of the purposes of this order and consistent with applicable law.

 . 6

.

Agency Actions

. (a) The Administrator shall adhere to the policies set forth in section 2 of this order.

(b) In the event the Administrator proposes to approve a design for a new applicable Federal public building that diverges from the preferred architecture set forth in subsection 2(a) of this order, including   or   architecture or any design derived from or related to these types of architecture, the Administrator shall notify the President through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy not   before   could reject such design without incurring substantial expenditures. Such notification shall set forth the reasons the Administrator proposes to approve such design, including:

(i) a detailed explanation of why the   believes selecting such design is justified, with particular focus on whether such design is as beautiful and reflective of the dignity, enterprise, vigor, and stability of the   system of self-government as alternative designs of comparable cost using preferred architecture;

(ii) the total expected cost of adopting the proposed design, including estimated maintenance and replacement costs throughout its expected lifecycle; and

(iii) a description of the designs using preferred architecture seriously considered for such project and the total expected cost of adopting such designs, including estimated maintenance and replacement costs throughout their expected lifecycles.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,  .

NOTE: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on   and published in   on  .
