Section 1

.

Policy

. It shall be the policy of the executive branch to advance infrastructure projects that create high-quality jobs for   workers, enhance productivity, improve quality of life, protect the environment, and strengthen economic growth.

 . 2

.

Establishment of Council

. There is established in  ).

 . 3

.

Membership of Council

. (a) The   shall be composed of not more than 15 members. The members shall be appointed by the President and drawn from the public with relevant experience or subject-matter expertise to represent the interests of the following infrastructure sectors:

(i) real estate;

(ii) finance;

(iii) construction;

(iv) communications and technology;

(v) transportation and logistics;

(vi) labor;

(vii) environmental policy;

(viii) regional and local economic development; and

(ix) other sectors determined by the President to be of value to the  .

(b) The President shall designate two   of the   from among the  's members.   may designate one or more Vice Chairs from among the  's members.

 . 4

.

Mission of Council

. The   shall study the scope and effectiveness of, and make findings and recommendations to the President regarding,   funding, support, and delivery of infrastructure projects in several sectors, including surface transportation, aviation, ports and waterways, water resources, renewable energy generation, electricity transmission, broadband, pipelines, and other such sectors as determined by the  . In pursuing its mission, the   shall make findings and recommendations concerning the following:

(a) prioritizing the  's infrastructure needs;

(b) accelerating pre-construction approval processes;

(c) developing funding and financing options capable of generating new infrastructure investment over  ; (d) identifying methods to increase public-private partnerships for infrastructure projects, including appropriate statutory or regulatory changes;

(e) identifying best practices in and opportunities to improve procurement methods, grant procedures, and infrastructure delivery systems; and

(f) promoting advanced manufacturing and infrastructure-related technological innovation.

 . 5

.

Administration of Council

. (a)   shall provide the   with such administrative support, including staff, facilities, equipment, and other support services, as may be necessary to carry out its mission.

(b) The Secretary of   shall, within   of the date of this order, submit questions to the   for consideration in its work and report.

(c) Members of the   shall serve without any additional compensation for their work on the  . Members of the   appointed from among private citizens of  , while engaged in the work of the  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of appropriations.

(d) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (Act), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except for those in section 6 and section 14 of that Act, shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

 . 6

.

Report of Council

. The   shall submit to the President a report containing its findings and recommendations.

 . 7

.

 

. The   shall terminate on  , unless extended by the President before that date, or within   after submitting its report pursuant to section 6 of this order, whichever occurs first.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with and provide information to the   as may be necessary to carry out the mission of the  , consistent with applicable law.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
