Section 1. Policy.

In   (Declaring a National Emergency Concerning the Novel Coronavirus Disease (COVID–19)  ), I declared a national emergency recognizing the threat that the novel (new) coronavirus known as SARS– CoV–2 poses to our  's healthcare systems. In recognizing the public health risk, I noted that on  ,   announced that the outbreak of  – 19 (the disease caused by SARS–CoV–2) can be characterized as a pandemic. I also noted that while  , along with   and local governments, have taken preventive and proactive measures to slow the spread of the virus and to treat those affected, the spread of COVID–19 within our  's communities threatens to strain our  's healthcare systems.

To deal with this threat, on  , I issued Executive Order   (  to   to the Spread of COVID–19), in which I delegated to the Secretary of   the prioritization and allocation authority under section 101 of the Act with respect to health and medical resources needed to respond to the spread of COVID–19. And on  , I issued Executive Order   (Preventing Hoarding of Health and Medical Resources to   to the Spread of COVID–19), in which I delegated to the Secretary of   the authority under section 102 of the Act to combat hoarding and price gouging with respect to such resources.

To ensure that our healthcare systems are able to surge capacity and capability to respond to the spread of COVID–19, it is the policy of   to expand domestic production of health and medical resources needed to respond to the spread of COVID–19, including personal protective equipment and ventilators. Accordingly, I am delegating authority under title III of the Act to guarantee loans by private institutions, make loans, make provision for purchases and commitments to purchase, and take additional actions to create, maintain, protect, expand, and restore domestic industrial base capabilities to produce such resources. To enable greater cooperation among private businesses in expanding production of and distributing such resources, I am also delegating my authority under section 708(c) and (d) of the Act (50 U.S.C. 4558(c), (d)) to provide for the making of voluntary agreements and plans of action by the private sector.

 . 2.   Under Title III of the Act.

(a) Notwithstanding Executive Order   of   (National Defense Resources Preparedness), the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   are each delegated, with respect to responding to the spread of COVID–19 within  , the authority of the President conferred by sections 301, 302, and 303 of the Act (50 U.S.C. 4531,  , and  ), and the authority to implement the Act in subchapter III of chapter 55 of title  , United States Code (50 U.S.C.  ,  ,  , and  ).

(b) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   may each use the authority under sections 301, 302, and 303 of the Act, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the heads of other executive departments and agencies as he deems appropriate, to respond to the spread of COVID–19.

(c) To provide additional authority to respond to the national emergency I declared in  , the requirements of section 301(a)(2), section 301(d)(1)(A), and section 303(a)(1) through (a)(6) of the Act are waived during the period of that national emergency.

(d) To provide additional authority to respond to the national emergency I declared in  , the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   are each authorized to submit for my approval under section 302(d)(2)(B) of the Act a proposed determination that any specific loan is necessary to avert an industrial resource or critical technology shortfall that would severely impair national defense capability.

(e) Before exercising the authority delegated under this section with respect to health or medical resources, the Secretary of   shall consult with the Secretary of  .

 . 3.   Under Title VII of the Act.

(a) Notwithstanding Executive Order  , the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   are each delegated, with respect to responding to the spread of COVID–19 within  , the authority of the President conferred by section 708(c)(1) and (d) of the Act. The Secretary of   shall provide to the Secretary of   notice of any use of such delegated authority.

(b) The delegation made in this section is made upon the condition that the Secretary of   or the Secretary of   consult with the Attorney General and with  , and obtain the prior approval of the Attorney General, after consultation by the Attorney General with  , as required by section 708(c)(2) of the Act, except when such consultation is waived under subsection (c) of section 3 of this order and section 708(c)(3) of the Act.

(c) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   are each authorized to submit for my approval under section 708(c)(3) of the Act any proposed determination that any specific voluntary agreement or plan of action is necessary to meet national defense requirements resulting from an event that degrades or destroys critical infrastructure.

(d) Before exercising the authority delegated under this section with respect to health or medical resources, the Secretary of   shall consult with the Secretary of  .

 . 4.  .

(a) Notwithstanding Executive Order  , the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   are each delegated, with respect to responding to the spread of COVID–19 within  , the authority of the President conferred by section 107 of the Act (50 U.S.C.  ).

(b) In addition to the delegations of authority in Executive Order   and Executive Order  , the authority of the President conferred by sections 101 and 102 of the Act (50 U.S.C. 4511,  ) is delegated to the Secretary of   with respect to health and medical resources needed to respond to the spread of COVID–19 within  .

(c) The Secretary of   may use the authority under section 101 of the Act to determine, in consultation with the heads of other executive departments and agencies as appropriate, the proper nationwide priorities and allocation of health and medical resources, including by controlling the distribution of such materials (including applicable services) in the civilian market, for responding to the spread of COVID–19 within  .

(d) Before exercising the authority under section 102 of the Act, the Secretary of   shall consult with the Secretary of  .

(e) The Secretary of   shall periodically consider whether the designations made by him under section 102 of the Act pursuant to section 4(b) of this order remain necessary. Upon finding that such designation of material is no longer necessary, the Secretary of   shall promptly publish a notice of withdrawal of the designation in  , and in such other manner as he deems appropriate.

 . 5. Implementing Rules and Regulations.

The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall each adopt and revise appropriate rules and regulations as may be necessary to implement this order.

 . 6. Policy Coordination.

The Assistant to the President for Trade and Manufacturing Policy shall serve as National Defense Production Act Policy Coordinator.

 . 7. General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,  .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
