Section 1

.

Purpose

. The   founding envisioned a political order in harmony with the design of "the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God," seeing the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness as embodied in and sanctioned by natural law and its traditions.

The formation of a republic around these principles marked a clear departure from previous forms of government, securing rights through a form of government that derives its legitimate power from the consent of the governed. Throughout its national life, our  's exploration of the full meaning of these principles has led it through the ratification of a Constitution, civil war, the abolition of slavery,  , and a series of domestic crises and world conflicts. Those events establish a clear historical record of an exceptional Nation dedicated to the ideas and ideals of its founding.

Against this history, in  , a series of polemics grounded in poor scholarship has vilified our   and our founding. Despite the virtues and accomplishments of this Nation, many students are now taught in school to hate their own country, and to believe that the men and women who built it were not heroes, but rather villains. This radicalized view of   history lacks perspective, obscures virtues, twists motives, ignores or distorts facts, and magnifies flaws, resulting in the truth being concealed and history disfigured. Failing to identify, challenge, and correct this distorted perspective could fray and ultimately erase the bonds that knit our country and culture together.

The recent attacks on our founding have highlighted  's history related to race. These one-sided and divisive accounts too often ignore or fail to properly honor and recollect the great legacy of the   national experience—our country's valiant and successful effort to shake off the curse of slavery and to use the lessons of that struggle to guide our work toward equal rights for all citizens in the present. Viewing   as an irredeemably and systemically racist country cannot account for the extraordinary role of the great heroes of the   movement against slavery and for civil rights—a great moral endeavor that, from   to  , Jr., was marked by religious fellowship, good will, generosity of heart, an emphasis on our shared principles, and an inclusive vision for the future.

As these heroes demonstrated, the path to a renewed and confident national unity is through a rediscovery of a shared identity rooted in our founding principles. A loss of national confidence in these principles would place rising generations in jeopardy of a crippling self-doubt that could cause them to abandon faith in the common story that binds us to one another across our differences. Without our common faith in the equal right of every individual   to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, authoritarian visions of government and society could become increasingly alluring alternatives to self-government based on the consent of the people. Thus it is necessary to provide  's young people access to what is genuinely inspiring and unifying in our history, as well as to the lessons imparted by the   experience of overcoming great national challenges. This is what makes possible the informed and honest patriotism that is essential for a successful republic. A restoration of   education grounded in the principles of our founding that is accurate, honest, unifying, inspiring, and ennobling must ultimately succeed at the local level. Parents and local school boards must be empowered to achieve greater choice and variety in curriculum at the   and local levels.

The role of   is to protect and preserve   and local control over the curriculum, program of instruction, administration, and personnel of educational institutions, schools, and school systems. Indeed, that is why my Administration rejects the Common Core curriculum and all efforts to have   impose a national curriculum or national standards in education.

Vigorous participation in local government has always been  's laboratory of liberty and a key to what makes us exceptional. The best way to preserve the story of  's founding principles is to live it in action by local communities reasserting control of how children receive patriotic education in their schools.

 . 2

.

The President's  

. (a) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall establish in   the President's   ("the 1776 Commission") to better enable a rising generation to understand the history and principles of the founding of   in   and to strive to form a more perfect Union.

(b) The   Commission shall be composed of not more than 20 members, who shall be appointed by the President. Members shall serve for a term of   and shall not be removed except for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance. The   Commission may include individuals from outside   with relevant experience or subject-matter expertise. The   Commission shall also include the following ex-officio members or such senior officials as those members may designate:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  ;

(iii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy; and

(vii) the Assistant to the President for  .

(c) The   Commission shall:

(i) produce a report for the President, within   of this order, which shall be publicly disseminated, regarding the core principles of the   founding and how these principles may be understood to further enjoyment of "the blessings of liberty" and to promote our striving "to form a more perfect Union." The   may solicit statements and contributions from intellectual and cultural figures in addition to the views of the   members;

(ii) advise and offer recommendations to the President and   regarding   plans to celebrate the 250th anniversary of   and coordinate with relevant external stakeholders on their plans;

(iii) facilitate the development and implementation of a "Presidential 1776 Award" to recognize student knowledge of the   founding, including knowledge about  , the Declaration of Independence,  , and the great soldiers and battles of  ;

(iv) advise executive departments and agencies (agencies) with regard to their efforts to ensure patriotic education—meaning the presentation of the history of the   founding and foundational principles, the examination of how   has grown closer to those principles throughout its history, and the explanation of why commitment to  's aspirations is beneficial and justified—is provided to the public at national parks, battlefields, monuments, museums, installations, landmarks, cemeteries, and other places important to the American Revolution and the   founding, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law;

(v) advise agencies on prioritizing the   founding in   grants and initiatives, including those described in section 4 of this order, and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law; and

(vi) facilitate, advise upon, and promote other activities to support public knowledge and patriotic education on the American Revolution and the   founding, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(d) The   Commission shall have a   and Vice Chair, designated by the President from among its members. An Executive Director, designated by the Secretary of   in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, shall coordinate the work of  . The   and Vice Chair shall work with the Executive Director to convene regular meetings of  , determine its agenda, and direct its work, consistent with this order.

(e)   shall provide funding and administrative support for  , to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(f) Members of the   Commission shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(g) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to  , any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

(h) The   Commission shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless extended by the President.

 . 3

.

Celebration of Constitution Day

. All relevant agencies shall monitor compliance with  , which provides that "each educational institution that receives Federal funds for   shall hold an educational program on   on   for the students served by the educational institution," including by verifying compliance with each educational institution that receives Federal funds. All relevant agencies shall take action, as appropriate, to enhance compliance with that law.

 . 4

.

Prioritize the   Founding in  

. The following agencies shall prioritize Federal resources, consistent with applicable law, to promote patriotic education:

(a)  , through   and   Civics Education-National Activities; (b)  , through    ; and

(c)  , through  , and through opportunities in the  ,  , and   programs, as well as in  .

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
