Section 1

.

Policy

. (a) It is the policy of   to protect its people from terrorist attacks and other public-safety threats. Screening and vetting procedures associated with determining which foreign nationals may enter  , including through   (USRAP), play a critical role in implementing that policy. Those procedures enhance our ability to detect foreign nationals who might commit, aid, or support acts of terrorism, or otherwise pose a threat to the national security or public safety of  , and they bolster our efforts to prevent such individuals from entering the country.

(b) Section 5 of Executive Order   of   (Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into  ), directed the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Director of   to develop a uniform baseline for screening and vetting standards and procedures applicable to all travelers who seek to enter  . A working group was established to satisfy this directive.

(c) Section 6(a) of Executive Order   directed a review to strengthen the vetting process for the USRAP. It also instructed the Secretary of   to suspend the travel of refugees into   under that program, and the Secretary of   to suspend decisions on applications for refugee status, subject to certain exceptions. Section 6(a) also required the Secretary of  , in conjunction with the Secretary of   and in consultation with the Director of  , to conduct a   review of the USRAP application and adjudication process in order to determine, and implement, additional procedures to ensure that individuals seeking admission as refugees do not pose a threat to the security and welfare of  . Executive Order   noted that terrorist groups have sought to infiltrate several nations through refugee programs and that the Attorney General had reported that more than 300 persons who had entered   as refugees were then the subjects of counterterrorism investigations by  .

(d) The Secretary of   convened a working group to implement the review process under section 6(a) of Executive Order  . This review was informed by the development of uniform baseline screening and vetting standards and procedures for all travelers under section 5 of Executive Order  . The section 6(a) working group compared the process for screening and vetting refugees with the uniform baseline standards and procedures established by the section 5 working group. The section 6(a) working group identified several ways to enhance the process for screening and vetting refugees and began implementing those improvements. (e) The review process for refugees required by Executive Order   has made our   safer. The improvements the section 6(a) working group has identified will strengthen the data-collection process for all refugee applicants considered for resettlement in  . They will also bolster the process for interviewing refugees through improved training, fraud-detection procedures, and interagency information sharing. Further, they will enhance the ability of our systems to check biometric and biographic information against a broad range of threat information contained in various Federal watchlists and databases.

(f) Section 2 of Proclamation 9645 of   (Enhancing Vetting Capabilities and Processes for Detecting Attempted Entry into   by Terrorists or Other Public-Safety Threats), suspended and limited, subject to exceptions and case-by-case waivers, the entry into   of foreign nationals of eight countries. As noted in that  , those suspensions and limitations are in the interest of   because of certain deficiencies in those countries' identity-management and information-sharing protocols and procedures, and because of the national security and public-safety risks that emanate from their territory, including risks that result from the significant presence of terrorists within the territory of several of those countries.

(g) The entry restrictions and limitations in Proclamation 9645 apply to the immigrant and nonimmigrant visa application and adjudication processes, which foreign nationals use to seek authorization to travel to   and apply for admission. Pursuant to section 3(b)(iii) of Proclamation 9645, however, those restrictions and limitations do not apply to those who seek to enter   through the USRAP.

(h) Foreign nationals who seek to enter   with an immigrant or nonimmigrant visa stand in a different position from that of refugees who are considered for entry into this country under the USRAP. For a variety of reasons, including substantive differences in the risk factors presented by the refugee population and in the quality of information available to screen and vet refugees, the refugee screening and vetting process is different from the process that applies to most visa applicants. At the same time, the entry of certain refugees into   through the   poses unique security risks and considerable domestic challenges that require the application of substantial resources.

 . 2

.

Resumption of  

. (a) Section 6(a) of Executive Order   provided for a temporary,   review of the USRAP application and adjudication process and an accompanying worldwide suspension of refugee travel to   and of application decisions under the  . That   period expires on  . Section 6(a) further provided that refugee travel and application decisions could resume after   for stateless persons and for the nationals of countries for which the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of   jointly determine that the additional procedures identified through the USRAP review process are adequate to ensure the security and welfare of  . The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of   have advised that the improvements to the   vetting process are generally adequate to ensure the security and welfare of  , that the Secretary of   and Secretary of   may resume that program, and that they will apply special measures to certain categories of refugees whose entry continues to pose potential threats to the security and welfare of  .

(b) With the improvements identified by the section 6(a) working group and implemented by the participating agencies, the refugee screening and vetting process generally meets the

uniform baseline for immigration screening and vetting established by the section 5 working group. Accordingly, a general resumption of the  , subject to the conditions set forth in section 3 of this order, is consistent with the security and welfare of  .

(c) The suspension of the   and other processes specified in section 6(a) of Executive Order   are no longer in effect. Subject to the conditions set forth in section 3 of this order, the Secretary of   may resume travel of qualified and appropriately vetted refugees into  , and the Secretary of   may resume adjudicating applications for refugee resettlement.

 . 3

.

Addressing the Risks Presented by Certain Categories of Refugees

. (a) Based on the considerations outlined above, including the special measures referred to in subsection (a) of section 2 of this order, Presidential action to suspend the entry of refugees under the   is not needed at this time to protect the security and interests of   and its people. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , however, shall continue to assess and address any risks posed by particular refugees as follows:

(i) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall coordinate to assess any risks to the security and welfare of   that may be presented by the entry into   through the USRAP of stateless persons and foreign nationals. Under section 207(c) and applicable portions of section 212(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1157(c) and 1182(a), section 402(4) of the Homeland Security Act of  , 6 U.S.C. 202(4), and other applicable authorities, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall determine, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, whether any actions should be taken to address the risks to the security and welfare of   presented by permitting any category of refugees to enter this country, and, if so, what those actions should be. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall administer the   consistent with those determinations, and in consultation with the Attorney General and the Director of  .

(ii) Within   of the date of this order and annually thereafter, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Director of  , shall determine, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, whether any actions taken to address the risks to the security and welfare of   presented by permitting any category of refugees to enter this country should be modified or terminated, and, if so, what those modifications or terminations should be. If the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , determines, at any time, that any actions taken pursuant to section 3(a)(i) should be modified or terminated, the Secretary of   may modify or terminate those actions accordingly. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall administer the USRAP consistent with the determinations made under this subsection, and in consultation with the Attorney General and the Director of  .

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Attorney General shall, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , and in cooperation with the heads of other executive departments and agencies as he deems appropriate, provide a report to the President on the effect of refugee resettlement in   on the national security, public safety, and general welfare of  . The report shall include any recommendations the Attorney General deems necessary to advance those interests.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
