Section 1

. (a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  :

(A) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, any of the following in or in relation to  :

(1) actions or policies that further threaten the peace, security, stability, or territorial integrity of  ; or

(2) the commission of serious human rights abuse;

(B) to be a current or former official of  ;

(C) to be any subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of  ;

(D) to operate in such sectors of the   economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  ;

(E) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(F) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 2

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the   and other officials of   as appropriate, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign person any of the sanctions described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, upon determining that the person, on or after the date of this order:

(i) is responsible for or complicit in, has directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, or financed, any of the following:

(A) the obstruction, disruption, or prevention of a ceasefire in northern  ;

(B) the intimidation or prevention of displaced persons from voluntarily returning to their places of residence in  ;

(C) the forcible repatriation of persons or refugees to  ; or

(D) the obstruction, disruption, or prevention of efforts to promote a political solution to the conflict in  , including:

(1) the convening and conduct of a credible and inclusive  -led constitutional process under the auspices of   ( );

(2) the preparation for and conduct of  -supervised elections, pursuant to the new constitution, that are free and fair and to the highest international standards of transparency and accountability; or

(3) the development of a new   government that is representative and reflects the will of the   people;

(ii) is an adult family member of a person designated under subsection (a)(i) of this section; or

(iii) is responsible for or complicit in, or has directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, the expropriation of property, including real property, for personal gain or political purposes in  .

(b) When the Secretary of  , in accordance with the terms of subsection (a) of this section, has determined that a person meets any of the criteria described in that subsection and has selected one or more of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the heads of relevant departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of  , as appropriate, shall ensure that the following actions are taken where necessary to implement the sanctions selected by the Secretary of  :

(i) agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person; or

(ii) the Secretary of   shall direct the denial of a visa to, and the Secretary of   shall exclude from  , any alien that the Secretary of   determines is a corporate officer or principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, a sanctioned person.

(c) When the Secretary of  , in accordance with the terms of subsection (a) of this section, has determined that a person meets any of the criteria described in that subsection and has selected one or more of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions selected by the Secretary of  :

(i) prohibit any   financial institution that is a   person from making loans or providing credits to the sanctioned person totaling more than $10,000,000 in

any   period, unless such person is engaged in activities to relieve human suffering and the loans or credits are provided for such activities;

(ii) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of   and in which the sanctioned person has any interest;

(iii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between banking institutions or by, through, or to any banking institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of   and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;

(iv) block all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the sanctioned person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;

(v) prohibit any   person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the sanctioned person;

(vi) restrict or prohibit imports of goods, technology, or services, directly or indirectly, into   from the sanctioned person; or

(vii) impose on the principal executive officer or officers, or persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities, of the sanctioned person the sanctions described in subsections ( ) of this section, as selected by the Secretary of  .

(d) The prohibitions in subsections (b) and (c) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 3

. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction for or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order.

(b) With respect to any foreign financial institution determined by the Secretary of the  , in accordance with this section, to meet the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of the   may prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the maintaining, in   of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by such foreign financial institution.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 4

. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection  ) or 2(a) of this order, or aliens for which the sanctions under subsection 2(b)(ii) have been selected, would be detrimental to the interests of  , and the entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of   determines that the entry of the person into   would not be contrary to the interests of  , including when the Secretary so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important   law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of   shall consult the Secretary of   on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of  . Such persons shall be treated in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of   shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary has established or may establish pursuant to  .

 . 5

. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 6

. The prohibitions in sections 1 and 2 of this order include:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 7

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 8

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) the term "foreign financial institution" means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. The term includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2),  ,  , or any other international financial institution so notified by the Secretary of the  ;

(c) the term "knowingly," with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result;

(d) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(e) the term "  person" or "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(f) the term "Government of Turkey" means  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, or any person owned or controlled by or acting for or on behalf of  .

 . 9

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.

 . 10

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 11

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)), and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 12

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
