Section 1

. Section 1 of Executive Order   is hereby amended to read as follows:

"

Section 1

. (a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) persons listed in the   to this order;

(ii) foreign persons determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of  :

(A) to have committed or have attempted to commit, to pose a significant risk of committing, or to have participated in training to commit acts of terrorism that threaten the security of   nationals or the national security, foreign policy, or economy of  ; or

(B) to be a leader of an entity:

(1) listed in the   to this order; or

(2) whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to a determination by the Secretary of   pursuant to this order;

(iii) persons determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Attorney General: (A) to be owned, controlled, or directed by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(B) to own or control, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(C) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, an act of terrorism as defined in section 3(d) of this order, or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(D) to have participated in training related to terrorism provided by any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(E) to be a leader or official of an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to:

(1) a determination by the Secretary of the   pursuant to this order; or

(2) subsection (a)(iv) of this section; or

(F) to have attempted or conspired to engage in any of the activities described in subsections (a)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section;

(iv) persons whose property and interests in property were blocked pursuant to Executive Order  , as amended, on or after  , and remained blocked immediately prior to the effective date of this order.

(b) The Secretary of the   is hereby authorized to prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the maintaining, in  , of a correspondent account or payable-through account of any foreign financial institution that the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , has determined, on or after the effective date of this order, has knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant transaction on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

(c) The prohibitions in subsections (a) and (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order."

Sec. 2

. Section 5 of Executive Order   is amended by replacing the reference to subsection 1(d) with a reference to subsection 1(a)(iii).

 . 3

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 4

. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .
