Section 1

.

Purpose

. Since  , my Administration has been committed to the goal of bringing great healthcare to the   people and putting patients first. To that end, my Administration has taken monumental steps to improve the efficiency and quality of healthcare in  .

(a) My Administration has been committed to restoring choice and control to the   patient.

On  , I signed into law the repeal of the burdensome individual-mandate penalty, liberating millions of low-income   from a tax that penalized them for not purchasing health-insurance coverage they did not want or could not afford. Through Executive Order   of   (   ), my Administration has expanded coverage options for millions of   in several ways.   increased the availability of renewable short-term, limited-duration healthcare plans, providing options that are up to 60 percent cheaper than the least expensive alternatives under   and Affordable Care Act ( ) and are projected to cover 500,000 individuals who would otherwise be uninsured. My Administration expanded health reimbursement arrangements, which have been projected by   to reach 800,000 businesses and over 11 million employees and to expand coverage to more than 800,000 individuals who would otherwise be uninsured.   also issued a rule to increase the availability of association health plans for small businesses, which, upon implementation of the rule, are projected to cover up to 400,000 previously uninsured individuals for on average 30 percent less cost.

As set forth in the Economic Report of the President ( ), my  's expansion of health savings accounts will further help millions of   pay for health expenditures by allowing them to save more of their own money free from Federal taxation, and will especially help   with chronic conditions who now have more flexibility to enroll in plans that fit their complicated care needs and can be paired with a tax-advantaged account.

At the beginning of the current   pandemic, my Administration acted to dramatically increase the accessibility and availability of telehealth services for   beneficiaries, enabling millions of individuals to use these services. Pursuant to Executive Order   of   (  and Telehealth Access), the Secretary of   will make permanent many of the new policies that improve the accessibility and availability of telehealth services. In addition, pursuant to that order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   will develop and implement a strategy to improve the physical and communications healthcare infrastructure available to rural  .

Through our State Relief and  , my Administration has given   additional health-insurance flexibility, which has expanded health-insurance coverage options for consumers and lowered costs for patients. These waivers allow   to move away from the  's rigid structure and are estimated to have lowered premiums by approximately 11 percent in  , 20 percent in  , and 43 percent in  . Due to actions my   took, like  , after   of dwindling choices and escalating prices, plan options for consumers increased and for  , for the first time ever, benchmark premiums actually decreased on Healthcare.gov. For  , the average benchmark premium dropped by nearly 4 percent.

After the prior Administration spent tens of billions of dollars creating electronic health records systems unable to accurately or effectively record and communicate patient data, my Administration has paved the way for a new wave of innovation to allow patients to safely send their own medical records to care providers of their choosing. My Patients over Paperwork initiative has cut red tape for doctors and nurses so they can spend more time with their patients, which the Centers for   and   ( ) within   ( ) has estimated to save over 40 million hours of wasted time for providers and suppliers  .

(b) My Administration has been ceaseless in its efforts to lower costs to make healthcare more affordable for   patients.

Under my tenure, prescription drugs saw their largest   price decrease in  . For  , we have approved a record number of generic drugs.   has estimated that these approvals saved patients $26 billion in   of my Administration alone. As part of  ,  , I signed into law the Creating and Restoring Equal Access to Equivalent Samples Act, which will pave the way for even more generic drugs and is projected to save taxpayers $3.3 billion from  .

  has acted to offer   beneficiaries prescription drug plans with the option of insulin capped at $35 in out-of-pocket expenses for a   supply. We are also reducing Government payments to overcharging hospitals participating in   by instead paying rates that more accurately reflect the hospitals' acquisition costs, which   estimated would save   beneficiaries $320 million on copayments for drugs alone.

As a result of Executive Order   ( ), low-income   who receive care from a federally qualified health center will have access to insulin and injectable epinephrine at prices lower than ever before. Under Executive Order   (Increasing Drug Importation to Lower Prices for  ), my Administration will be the first to complete a rulemaking to authorize the safe importation of certain lower-cost prescription drugs from  . Pursuant to Executive Order   (Lowering Prices for Patients by   to  ), my Administration is taking action to eliminate wasteful payments to middlemen by passing drug discounts through to patients at the pharmacy counter without increasing premiums for beneficiaries or cost to Federal taxpayers. And my Administration is taking action to ensure that   patients receive the lowest price that drug companies offer comparable foreign nations through Executive Order   of   (  by   First).

As part of  ,  , I also signed into law the repeal of the medical device tax, the   fee on health-insurance providers, and the " " tax on certain employer-sponsored health insurance, which threatened to dramatically increase the cost of healthcare for working families.

My Administration is transforming the black-box hospital and insurance pricing systems to be transparent about price and quality. Regardless of health-insurance coverage, two-thirds of adults in   still worry about the threat of unexpected medical bills. This fear is the result of a system under which individuals and employers are unable to see how insurance companies, pharmacy benefit managers, insurance brokers, and providers are or will be paid. One major culprit is the practice of "surprise billing," in which a patient receives unexpected bills at highly inflated prices from providers who are not part of the patient's insurance network, even if the patient was treated at a hospital that was part of the patient's network. Patients can receive these bills despite having no opportunity to select around an out-of-network provider in advance.

On  , I announced four principles to guide congressional efforts to prohibit exorbitant bills resulting from patients' accidentally or unknowingly receiving services from out-of-network physicians. Unfortunately, the   has failed to act, and patients remain vulnerable to surprise billing.

In the absence of congressional action, my Administration has already taken strong and decisive action to make healthcare prices more transparent. On  , I signed Executive Order 13877 (  Quality Transparency in   to  ), directing certain agencies—for the first time ever—to make sure patients have access to meaningful price and quality information prior to the delivery of care. Beginning  , hospitals will be required to publish their real price for every service, and publicly display in a consumer-friendly, easy-to-understand format the prices of at least 300 different common services that are able to be shopped for in advance.

We have also taken some concrete steps to eliminate surprise out-of-network bills. For example, on  , my Administration required providers to certify, as a condition of receiving supplemental COVID-19 funding, that they would not seek to collect out-of-pocket expenses from a patient for treatment related to   in an amount greater than what the patient would have otherwise been required to pay for care by an in-network provider. These initiatives have made important progress, although additional efforts are necessary.

Not all hospitals allow for surprise bills. But many do. Unfortunately, surprise billing has become sufficiently pervasive that the fear of receiving a surprise bill may dissuade patients from seeking appropriate care. And research suggests a correlation between hospitals that frequently allow surprise billing and increases in hospital admissions and imaging procedures, putting patients at risk of receiving unnecessary services, which can lead to physical harm and threatens the long-term financial sustainability of  .

Efforts to limit surprise billing and increase the number of providers participating in the same insurance network as the hospital in which they work would correspondingly streamline the ability of patients to receive care and reduce time spent on billing disputes.

On  ,   released   to empower patients to make fully informed decisions about their healthcare by facilitating the availability of appropriate and meaningful price and quality information. These transformative actions will arm patients with the tools to be active and effective shoppers for healthcare services, enabling them to identify high-value providers and services, and ultimately place downward pressure on prices.

My Administration has cracked down on waste, fraud, and abuse that direct valuable taxpayer resources away from those who need them most. My Administration implemented a "site neutral" payment system between hospital outpatient departments and physicians' offices, to ensure   beneficiaries are charged the same price for the same service regardless of where it takes place, which   estimates will save them approximately $160 million in co-payments for  . We also changed the rules to enable Government watchdogs to proactively identify and stop perpetrators of fraud before money goes out the door.

(c) My Administration has been dedicated to providing better care for all  .

This includes a steadfast commitment to always protecting individuals with pre-existing conditions and ensuring they have access to the high-quality healthcare they deserve. No   should have to risk going without health insurance based on a health history that he or she cannot change.

In an attempt to justify the  , the previous Administration claimed that, absent action by the  , up to 129 million (later updated to 133 million) non-elderly people with what it described as pre-existing conditions were in danger of being denied health-insurance coverage. According to  , however, only 2.7 percent of such individuals actually gained access to health insurance through the  , given existing laws and programs already in place to cover them. For example,   of   has long protected individuals with pre-existing conditions, including individuals covered by group health plans and individuals who had such coverage but lost it.

The   produced multiple other failures. The average insurance premium in the individual market more than doubled from   to  , and those who have not received generous Federal subsidies have struggled to maintain coverage. For those who have managed to maintain coverage, many have experienced a substantial rise in deductibles, limited choice of insurers, and limited provider networks that exclude their doctors and the facilities best suited to care for them.

Additionally, approximately 30 million   remain uninsured, notwithstanding the previous  's promises that the   would address this intractable problem. On top of these disappointing results, Federal taxpayers and, unfortunately, future generations of   workers, have been left with an enormous bill. The  's   expansion and subsidies for the individual market are projected by   to cost more than $1.8 trillion over  .

The   is neither the best nor the only way to ensure that   who suffer from pre-existing conditions have access to health-insurance coverage. I have agreed with the   challenging the  , who have won in the Federal district court and court of appeals, that the  , as amended, exceeds the power of the  . The   was flawed from its inception and should be struck down. However, access to health insurance despite underlying health conditions should be maintained, even if   invalidates the unconstitutional, and largely harmful,  .

My Administration has always been committed to ensuring that patients with pre-existing conditions can obtain affordable healthcare, to lowering healthcare costs, to improving quality of care, and to enabling individuals to choose the healthcare that meets their needs. For example, when the   pandemic hit, my   implemented a program to provide any individual without health-insurance coverage access to necessary COVID-19-related testing and treatment.

My commitment to improving care across our country expands vastly beyond the rules governing health insurance. On  , I signed Executive Order   ( ) to improve care for the hundreds of thousands of   suffering from end-stage renal disease. Pursuant to that order, my Administration launched a program to encourage home dialysis and promote transplants for patients, and expects to enroll approximately 120,000   beneficiaries with end-stage renal disease in the program. We also have removed financial barriers to living organ donation by adding additional financial support for living donors, such as by reimbursing expenses for lost wages, child care, and elder care.  , together with  , issued two phases of awards through  's   to work toward the creation of an artificial kidney.

My Administration has taken unprecedented action to improve the quality of and access to care for individuals with HIV, as part of our goal of ending the epidemic of HIV in   by  .   has awarded at least $226 million to expand access to HIV care, treatment, medication, and prevention services, focused on 48 counties,  ,  , and  ,  , where more than 50 percent of new HIV diagnoses occurred in   and  , as well as seven   with a substantial rural HIV rate. We secured a historic donation of a groundbreaking HIV preventive medication that is available at no cost to eligible patients.

My Administration has started a transformation in healthcare in rural  . This includes a new effort, pursuant to my directive in Executive Order  , to support small hospitals and health clinics in rural communities in transitioning from volume-based   and   reimbursement, which has failed rural communities that struggle with a lack of patient volume, and toward value-based payment mechanisms that are tailored to meet the needs of their communities. We updated   payment policies to address a problem in the program's payment calculation that has historically disadvantaged rural hospitals, and released a Rural Action Plan to incorporate recommendations from experts and leaders across  . We have also dedicated a special focus on improving care offered through   ( ) within  , including by creating  , implementing an increase in   funding for   by $243 million from  , and expanding nationwide  's successful  .

My Administration has additionally demonstrated an incredible dedication to protecting and improving care for those most in need, including senior citizens, those with substance use disorders, and those to whom our   owes the greatest debt: our veterans.

I have protected the viability of the   program. For example, on  , I signed into law the repeal of  , which would have been a group of unelected bureaucrats created by the  , designed to be insulated from the will of  's elected leaders for the purpose of cutting the spending of this important program. On  , I signed Executive Order   (Protecting and Improving Medicare for Our Nation's Seniors), to modernize the   program and continue its viability. According to   estimates, seniors have saved $2.65 billion in lower   premiums under my Administration while benefiting from more choices. For example, the average     premium has declined an estimated 28 percent since  , and   has included about 1,200 more plan options since  . New Medicare Advantage supplemental benefits have helped seniors stay safe in their homes, improved respite care for caregivers, and provided transportation, more in-home support services and assistance, and non-opioid pain management alternatives like therapeutic massages.   Part D premiums are at their lowest level in their history, with the average basic premium declining 13.5 percent since  .

My Administration has directed unprecedented attention on the substance use disorder epidemic, with a focus on reducing overdose deaths from prescription opioids and the deadly synthetic opioid fentanyl. On  , I signed the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act, enabling the expenditure of billions of dollars of funding for important programs to support prevention and recovery. My Administration has provided approximately $22.5 billion from   to   to address the opioid crisis and improve access to prevention, treatment, and recovery services. We saw a 34 percent decrease in total opioids dispensed   by pharmacies  , an approximate increase of 64 percent in the number of   who receive medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorder since  , and a 484 percent increase in naloxone prescriptions since  . Data show that drug overdose deaths fell nationwide for the first time in   between 2017 and  , with many of the hardest-hit   leading the way.

Improving care for our  's veterans has been a priority since the beginning of my Administration. On  , I signed   and   (MISSION) Act of  , which authorized billions of dollars to improve options for veterans to receive care outside of   ( ) healthcare providers. Since taking effect, the   estimates that more than 2.4 million veterans have benefited from more than 6.5 million referrals to the 725,000 private healthcare providers with which the   is now working. On  , I signed   and Whistleblower Protection Act of   to hold our civil servants accountable for maintaining the best quality of care possible for our  's veterans by giving the Secretary of   more power to discipline employees and shorten an appeals process that can  . On  , I signed Executive Order   (National Roadmap to   and  ) to ensure that   leads a collective effort to prevent suicide among our veterans.

I have used scientific research to focus on areas most pressing for the health of  . On  , I signed Executive Order   (Modernizing Influenza Vaccines in   to  ), recognizing the threat that pandemic influenza continues to represent and putting forward a plan to prepare for future influenza pandemics. To modernize influenza vaccines and promote national security and public health,   issued a  , $226 million contract to retain and increase capacity to produce recombinant influenza vaccine domestically, and  , part of   within  , initiated   program.

Investments my Administration has made in scientific research will help tackle some of our most pressing medical challenges and pay dividends for generations to come. This includes working to increase funding for Alzheimer's disease research by billions of dollars since   and a plan to invest more than $500 million over   to improve pediatric cancer research. On  , I signed   and Other  ,  , and Treatment Act of   to provide support for research into sickle cell disease, which disproportionately impacts   and  , and to authorize programs relating to sickle cell disease surveillance, prevention, and treatment.

On  , I signed the  ,  ,  , and   to Try Act of  , which gives terminally ill patients the right to access certain treatments without being blocked by onerous Federal regulations.

In response to the   pandemic, my Administration launched Operation Warp Speed, a groundbreaking effort of   to engage with the private sector to quickly develop and deliver safe and effective vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics for  . On  , I signed Executive Order   (  by  ,  , and   in  ), to protect   through reduced dependence on foreign manufacturers for essential medicines and other items and to strengthen  .

Taken together, these extraordinary reforms constitute an ongoing effort to improve   healthcare by putting patients first and delivering continuous innovation. And this effort will continue to succeed because of my  's commitment to delivering great healthcare with more choices, better care, and lower costs for all  .

 . 2

.

Policy

. It has been and will continue to be the policy of   to give   seeking healthcare more choice, lower costs, and better care and to ensure that   with pre-existing conditions can obtain the insurance of their choice at affordable rates.

 . 3

.

  in  

. The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall maintain and build upon existing actions to expand access to and options for affordable healthcare.

 . 4

.

Lowering Healthcare Costs for  

. (a) The Secretary of  , in coordination with  , shall maintain and build upon existing actions to expand access to affordable medicines, including accelerating the approvals of new generic and biosimilar drugs and facilitating the safe importation of affordable prescription drugs from abroad.

(b) The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall maintain and build upon existing actions to ensure consumers have access to meaningful price and quality information prior to the delivery of care.

(i) Recognizing that both chambers of the   have made substantial progress towards a solution to end surprise billing, the Secretary of   shall work with the   to reach a legislative solution by  .

(ii) In the event a legislative solution is not reached by  , the Secretary of   shall take administrative action to prevent a patient from receiving a bill for out-of-pocket expenses that the patient could not have reasonably foreseen.

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall update   website to inform beneficiaries of hospital billing quality, including:

(A) whether the hospital is in compliance with  , as amended (84

 .  .

65524), effective  ;

(B) whether, upon discharge, the hospital provides patients with a receipt that includes a list of itemized services received during a hospital stay; and

(C) how often the hospital pursues legal action against patients, including to garnish wages, to place a lien on a patient's home, or to withdraw money from a patient's income tax refund.

(c) The Secretary of  , in coordination with the Administrator of  , shall maintain and build upon existing actions to reduce waste, fraud, and abuse in the healthcare system.

 . 5

.

Providing    

. (a) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall maintain and build upon existing actions to improve quality in the delivery of care for veterans.

(b) The Secretary of   shall continue to promote medical innovations to find novel and improved treatments for  , Alzheimer's disease, sickle cell disease, pediatric cancer, and other conditions threatening the well-being of  .

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
