1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Arctic Diplomacy Act of 2021
.
2.
Assistant Secretary of State for Arctic Affairs
Section 1(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (
22 U.S.C. 2651a(c)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
not more than 24 Assistant Secretaries of State
and inserting
not more than 25 Assistant Secretaries of State
;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
(4)
Assistant Secretary of State for Arctic Affairs
(A)
In general
There is authorized to be in the Department of State an Assistant Secretary of State for Arctic Affairs, who shall be responsible to the Secretary of State and the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs for all matters, programs, and related activities pertaining to the Arctic region in the conduct of foreign policy by the Department, including, as appropriate, leading the coordination of programs carried out by United States Government agencies abroad, and such other related duties as the Secretary may from time to time designate.
(B)
Areas of responsibility
The Assistant Secretary of State for Arctic Affairs shall maintain continuous observation and coordination of all matters pertaining to energy, environment, trade, infrastructure development and maintenance, law enforcement, and political-military affairs in the conduct of foreign policy in the Arctic, including programs carried out by other United States Government agencies when such programs pertain to the following matters:
(i)
National security.
(ii)
Strengthening cooperation among Arctic countries.
(iii)
The promotion of responsible natural resource management and economic development.
(iv)
Protecting the Arctic environment and conserving its biological resources.
(v)
Arctic indigenous peoples, including by involving them in decisions that affect them.
(vi)
Scientific monitoring and research.
(C)
Additional duties
In addition to the responsibilities specified in subparagraph (B), the Assistant Secretary for Arctic Affairs shall also carry out such other relevant duties as the Secretary may assign.
(D)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
Arctic region
The term
Arctic region
means—
(I)
the geographic region north of the 66.56083 parallel latitude north of the equator;
(II)
all the United States territory north and west of the boundary formed by the Porcupine, Yukon, and Kuskokwim Rivers;
(III)
all contiguous seas, including the Arctic Ocean and the Beaufort, Bering, and Chukchi Seas; and
(IV)
the Aleutian Chain.
(ii)
Arctic countries
The term
Arctic Countries
means the permanent members of the Arctic Council, namely the United States, Canada, Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia.
.
