1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Trade with China Strategic Assessment Act of 2022
.
2.
Report on economic integration between the United States and the People's Republic of China
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 3 years thereafter for 15 years, the Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the United States Trade Representative, shall submit to Congress a report on the state of economic integration between the United States and the People's Republic of China.
(b)
Contents
Each report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of the current level of economic integration between the United States and the People's Republic of China in each priority sector.
(2)
An assessment of how economic integration between the United States and the People's Republic of China has changed, and is predicted to change, over time for each priority sector.
(3)
An analysis of the extent to which each priority sector of the United States and the People's Republic of China should, in the view of the Secretary, become more or less integrated during the 5-year period following submission of the report.
(4)
Any recommendations for changes to United States trade law or policy to achieve the desired level of integration for each priority sector identified under paragraph (3).
(5)
Any other information the Secretary considers appropriate.
(c)
Consultation and public hearings
In producing each report required by subsection (a), the Secretary may—
(1)
consult with any other Federal agency that the Secretary considers necessary; and
(2)
conduct public hearings to gather, or otherwise allow interested parties an opportunity to present, information and advice relevant to the report.
(d)
Form of report
Each report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(e)
Applicability of FOIA
Nothing in this section, or in a report required by subsection (a), shall be construed to allow the disclosure of information or a record that is exempt from public disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the
Freedom of Information Act
).
(f)
Applicability of Paperwork Reduction Act
Subchapter I of
chapter 35
of title 44, United States Code (commonly known as the
Paperwork Reduction Act
), shall not apply to this section.
(g)
Priority sector defined
In this section, the term
priority sector
means one of the following elements of an economy:
(1)
Electronic consumer goods.
(2)
Non-electronic consumer goods.
(3)
Energy.
(4)
Apparel and textiles.
(5)
Artificial intelligence.
(6)
Information and communication technology, including fifth or future generation technology.
(7)
Quantum computing.
(8)
Automobiles and trucks and parts for automobiles and trucks.
(9)
Ships and maritime transportation.
(10)
Trains and railroad products.
(11)
Aircraft and aircraft parts.
(12)
Space systems.
(13)
Semiconductors.
(14)
Financial services.
(15)
Non-financial services.
(16)
Agricultural products.
(17)
Pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
