201.
For the purposes of administering pay during calendar year 2021, the limitation on the maximum rate of gross compensation for any member or civilian employee of the Capitol Police whose compensation includes overtime pay under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (
29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.
) shall be limited to Executive Schedule II at $199,300. Excluded from this limitation for calendar year 2021 shall be retention bonuses and hazard bonuses related to the events of January 6th.
Emergency assistance for the Capitol Police
202.
(a)
Assistance by executive departments and agencies
Section 911(a) of division B of the Department of Defense and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks on the United States Act, 2002 (
2 U.S.C. 1970(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
or in accordance with paragraph (4)
before
and on a permanent
;
(2)
in paragraph (4)(B)—
(A)
in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking
advance
; and
(B)
in clause (ii)—
(i)
in subclause (I), by striking
or
after the semicolon;
(ii)
in subclause (II), by striking
and
after the semicolon and inserting
or
; and
(iii)
by adding at the end the following:
(III)
the Chief of the Capitol Police, if the Chief of the Capitol Police has determined that the provision of assistance is necessary to prevent the significant disruption of governmental function and public order within the United States Capitol Buildings and Grounds, as described in section 9 of the Act entitled
An Act to define the area of the United States Capitol Grounds, to regulate the use thereof, and for other purposes
, approved July 31, 1946 (
2 U.S.C. 1961
); and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(5)
Revocation
The Capitol Police Board may revoke a request for assistance provided under paragraph (4)(B)(ii)(III) upon consultation with appropriate Members of the Senate and House of Representatives in leadership positions.
.
(b)
Capitol police special officers
Section 1017 of division H of the Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003 (
2 U.S.C. 1974
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting
or as determined by the Chief of the Capitol Police in accordance with section 911(a)(4)(B)(ii)(III) of division B of the Department of Defense and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks on the United States Act, 2002 (
2 U.S.C. 1970(a)(4)(B)(ii)(III)
),
after
Congress,
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
An appointment under this section due to an emergency determined by the Chief of the Capitol Police under paragraph (4)(B)(ii)(III) of section 911(a) of division B of the Department of Defense and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks on the United States Act, 2002 (
2 U.S.C. 1970(a)
) shall be in effect for the period of the emergency, unless and until the Capitol Police Board revokes the request for assistance under paragraph (5) of such section.
;
(2)
by striking subsections (c) and (e);
(3)
by redesignating subsections (d), (f), and (g) as subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively; and
(4)
in subsection (d), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this subsection, by striking
President pro tempore
and inserting
Majority Leader
.
(c)
(1)
Joint oversight hearings
The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives (referred to in this section as the
Committees
) are authorized to jointly conduct oversight hearings regarding the Capitol Police Board and may request the attendance of all members of the Capitol Police Board at any such hearing. Members of the Capitol Police Board shall attend a joint hearing under this section, as requested and under such rules or procedures as may be adopted by the Committees.
(2)
Timing
The Committees may conduct oversight hearings under this section as determined appropriate by the Committees, but shall conduct not less than one oversight hearing under this section during each Congress.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2021.
ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL
Capital construction and operations
For an additional amount for
Capital Construction and Operations
, $15,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to respond to the events at the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021, by securing vulnerabilities of windows and doors in the United States Capitol Building:
Provided
, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
III
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
301.
Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year involved.
302.
No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
303.
Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the additional amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts shall be available under the authorities and conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2021.
304.
Each amount appropriated in this Act may be made available to restore amounts, either directly or through reimbursement, for obligations incurred for the purposes provided herein for such appropriation prior to the date of the enactment of this Act.
305.
Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded or transferred, if applicable) only if the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such designations to the Congress.
306.
Any amount appropriated by this Act, designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and subsequently so designated by the President, and transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this Act shall retain such designation.
