1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Treasures Act of 2021
.
2.
Prohibiting National Archives and Records Administration content warnings
(a)
In general
Chapter 21
of title 44, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
2121.
Prohibiting content warnings on founding fathers documents
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Content warning
The term
content warning
includes any message preceding or attached to a document that identifies or labels the document as dangerous, harmful, anachronistic, or any other term implying harm associated with the document, disparaging the document, assuming malicious intent on the part of the authors of the document, or discouraging potential readers from reading the document.
(2)
Founding Father of the United States
The term
Founding Father
means any individual who—
(A)
signed the Declaration of Independence;
(B)
served as an officer in the Revolutionary War;
(C)
attended the Second Continental Congress;
(D)
attended the Constitutional Convention; or
(E)
was granted a charter for one of the original 13 colonies of the United States.
(3)
Qualifying document
The term
qualifying document
means any document, text, manuscript, book, letter, pamphlet, government document, artifact, article of clothing, costume, or item written in whole or in part, once belonging to, or associated with in public display a Founding Father of the United States.
(b)
Prohibition
The Archivist shall not—
(1)
attach to or associate with any qualifying document written by a Founding Father of the United States any content warning;
(2)
display a content warning as part of an exhibition of any qualifying document is any public display operated by the Administration;
(3)
display a content warning on the website of the Administration or on any other website operated by the Administration; or
(4)
make any changes to the rotunda of the Administration or any other space under their jurisdiction of the Administration that displays qualifying documents to the public except insofar as changes are necessary for maintenance, routine operations, or repairs.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 21
of title 44, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
2221. Prohibiting content warnings on founding fathers documents.
.
