1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Emergency Conservation Program Improvement Act of 2022
.
2.
Improving the Emergency Conservation Program
Section 401 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (
16 U.S.C. 2201
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in the subsection heading, by inserting
and other emergency conservation measures
after
fencing
; and
(B)
in paragraph (1)—
(i)
by inserting
or other emergency measures to replace or restore farmland or conservation structures requiring an immediate response (as determined by the Secretary),
after
replacement of fencing,
; and
(ii)
by striking
option of receiving
and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting the following:
option of receiving, before the agricultural producer carries out the repair, replacement, or restoration—
(A)
with respect to a payment to the agricultural producer for a replacement, 75 percent of the cost of the replacement, as determined by the Secretary based on the fair market value of the cost of the replacement using the estimated cost of the applicable practice published in the Field Office Technical Guide of each State by the Natural Resources Conservation Service; and
(B)
with respect to a payment to the agricultural producer for a repair or restoration, 50 percent of the cost of the repair or restoration, as determined by the Secretary based on the fair market value of the cost of the repair or restoration using the estimated cost of the applicable practice published in the Field Office Technical Guide of each State by the Natural Resources Conservation Service.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Wildfire determination
A wildfire that causes damage eligible for a payment under subsection (a) includes—
(1)
a wildfire that is not caused naturally if the damage is caused by the spread of the wildfire due to natural causes; and
(2)
a wildfire that is caused by the Federal Government.
.
3.
Improving the Emergency Forest Restoration Program
Section 407 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (
16 U.S.C. 2206
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(2), by striking
wildfires,
and inserting
wildfires (including a wildfire that is not caused naturally if the damage is caused by the spread of the wildfire due to natural causes and a wildfire that is caused by the Federal Government),
;
(2)
by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
(3)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
(e)
Advance payments
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall give an owner of nonindustrial private forest land the option of receiving, before the owner carries out emergency measures under this section, not more than 75 percent of the cost of the emergency measures, as determined by the Secretary based on the fair market value of the cost of the emergency measures using the estimated cost of the applicable practice published in the Field Office Technical Guide of each State by the Natural Resources Conservation Service.
(2)
Return of funds
If the funds provided under paragraph (1) are not expended by the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date on which the owner of nonindustrial private forest land receives those funds, the funds shall be returned within a reasonable timeframe, as determined by the Secretary.
.
