1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transnational Criminal Investigative Unit Stipend Act
.
2.
Homeland Security Investigations Transnational Criminal Investigative Units
(a)
In general
Subtitle H of title VIII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 451 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
890C.
Transnational Criminal Investigative Units
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall operate Transnational Criminal Investigative Units within United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations.
(b)
Composition
Each Transnational Criminal Investigative Unit shall be composed of trained foreign law enforcement officials who shall collaborate with Homeland Security Investigations to investigate and prosecute individuals involved in transnational criminal activity.
(c)
Vetting requirement
(1)
In general
Upon entry into a Transnational Criminal Investigative Unit, and at periodic intervals while serving in such a unit, foreign law enforcement officials shall be required to pass certain security evaluations, which may include a background check, a polygraph examination, a urinalysis test, or other measures that the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement determines to be appropriate.
(2)
Report
The Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall submit a report to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
that describes—
(A)
the procedures used for vetting Transnational Criminal Investigative Unit members; and
(B)
any additional measures that should be implemented to prevent personnel in vetted units from being compromised by criminal organizations.
(d)
Monetary stipend
The Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is authorized to pay vetted members of a Transnational Criminal Investigative Unit a monetary stipend in an amount associated with their duties dedicated to unit activities.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. note) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 890B the following:
Sec. 890C. Transnational Criminal Investigative Units.
.
