1.
In addition to the Senators from each of the several States, the Senate of the United States shall be composed of twelve Senators at-large, who shall be elected by the People of the United States for six years, and each Senator at-large shall have one vote. Senators at-large shall meet the same age and citizenship requirements as the Senators from each of the several States.
2.
Senators at-large shall be elected using a national popular vote, under which each eligible elector may vote for one candidate for each seat that is up for election. Seats of the Senators at-large shall be divided equally among the three Classes of Senate seats, so that one-third may be chosen every second year. The first election of Senators at-large shall occur no later than the second regularly scheduled general election for Federal office following the date of the ratification of this article, in which one-third of the seats of Senators at-large shall be up for election.
3.
Within thirty days of the seat of a Senator at-large becoming vacant, the executive authority of the State in which the departing Senator at-large resided when last elected or appointed to such seat shall fill the vacancy by appointing a Senator at-large of the same political party, or a political party of a different name if affiliated with the same political party at the State level, as the departing incumbent. If the seat is not up for election at the next regularly scheduled general election for Federal office that occurs following a period of delay that Congress shall by law provide, a special election shall be held to determine who shall serve the remainder of the term. Such special election shall coincide with such general election.
4.
An eligible elector shall include any United States citizen who is eighteen years of age or older; who has registered to vote by the deadline of the citizen’s State of residence; and who otherwise meets the eligibility requirements, as set by the citizen’s State of residence, for voting in a general election for Federal office.
5.
The election of Senators at-large shall be administered by each of the several States, but Congress shall by law provide the procedures for such election. Each State shall submit a tabulation of all ballots cast within its jurisdiction to such Federal entity as Congress shall by law provide, which shall collect and count the tabulations and announce the winners.
6.
References in this article to the States and the electors thereof shall apply in the same manner to United States territories and the electors thereof and to the District constituting the seat of Government of the United States and the electors thereof.
7.
In addition to the Electors for President and Vice President appointed by each of the several States, there shall be twelve Electors at-large, who shall be appointed in such manner as Congress shall by law provide. Electors at-large shall hold the same powers and duties of Electors for President and Vice President, except that Electors at-large shall meet in the District constituting the seat of Government of the United States, where they shall cast their ballots for the presidential and vice-presidential candidates having received the greatest number of votes cast by citizens of the United States. Electors at-large shall be included in determining the whole number of Electors appointed for the purposes of the twelfth article of amendment.
8.
Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
.
