 

It is my melancholy duty to inform you that the Hon.  , Secretary of  , departed this life at twelve minutes past 4 o'clock on   afternoon. In consequence of this afflicting event the President directs that   of the Government will be careful to manifest every observance of honor which custom has established as appropriate to the memory of one so eminent as a public functionary and so distinguished as a citizen.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

  FISH.

Addressed to the heads of  .

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

 ,  .

SIR: * I have the honor to inform you that the President directs me to communicate to you his order that in honor of the memory of the Hon.  , late Secretary of War, who died   at twelve minutes past 4 o'clock p.m., the   shall be draped in mourning for    , and that they be closed from the morning of the 8th instant until after the obsequies of the deceased shall have been solemnized.

I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,

  FISH.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

 ,  .

The remains of the Hon.  , late Secretary of War, will be interred with military honors, under the direction of  , on  , the 9th instant, at 10 o'clock a.m. The following persons will officiate as pallbearers on the occasion:

Brevet Major-General  ,  ; Brevet Major-General  , Inspector-General; Brevet Major-General  , Judge-Advocate-General; Brevet Major-General  ,  ; Brevet Major-General  ,  ; Brevet Major-General  , Surgeon-General; Brevet Major-General  , Paymaster-General; Brevet  , Chief of Engineers; Brevet Major-General  , Chief of Ordnance; Brevet Brigadier-General  , Chief Signal Officer; Brevet  ; Brevet Major-General  ; Commodore  , Chief Bureau Equipment; Brigadier-General  ,  ;  , Second Assistant Postmaster-General; Hon.  , mayor of  .

On   of the funeral the customary number of guns will be fired from all arsenals, forts, and navy-yards in   and from the Military and Naval Academies.   will be kept at half-mast, custom-houses dosed, and all public work suspended during  .

The General of the   and heads of the several Executive Departments will issue the orders necessary for carrying these directions into effect.

By order of the President:
