1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Air Force Rated Officer Retention Program Act
.
2.
Air Force rated officer retention demonstration program
(a)
Program requirement
The Secretary shall establish and carry out within the Department of the Air Force a demonstration program to assess and improve retention on active duty in the Air Force of rated officers described in subsection (b).
(b)
Rated officers described
Rated officers described in this subsection are rated officers serving on active duty in the Air Force, excluding rated officers with a reserve appointment in the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve—
(1)
whose continued service on active duty would be in the best interest of the Department of the Air Force, as determined by the Secretary; and
(2)
who have not more than three years and not less than one year remaining on an active duty service obligation under section 653 of title 10, United States Code.
(c)
Written agreement
(1)
In general
Under the demonstration program required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall offer retention incentives under subsection (d) to a rated officer described in subsection (b) who executes a written agreement to remain on active duty in a regular component of the Air Force for not less than four years after the completion of the active duty service obligation of the officer under section 653 of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Exception
If the Secretary of the Air Force determines that an assignment previously guaranteed under subsection (d)(1) to a rated officer described in subsection (b) cannot be fulfilled, the agreement of the officer under paragraph (1) to remain on active duty shall expire not later than one year after that determination.
(d)
Retention incentives
(1)
Guarantee of future assignment location
Under the demonstration program required under subsection (a), the Secretary may offer to a rated officer described in subsection (b) a guarantee of future assignment locations based on the preference of the officer.
(2)
Aviation bonus
Under the demonstration program required under subsection (a), notwithstanding section 334(c) of title 37, United States Code, the Secretary may pay to a rated officer described in subsection (b) an aviation bonus not to exceed an average annual amount of $50,000 (subject to paragraph (3)(B)).
(3)
Combination of incentives
The Secretary may offer to a rated officer described in subsection (b) a combination of incentives under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(4)
Variations; limitations
The Secretary may vary or limit the total number of available contracts and the combination of incentives within such contracts to target certain Air Force specialty codes, ensure required assignments locations are filled, and readiness is not negatively affected. The Secretary shall determine the criteria for such variations or limitations and include such criteria in the annual briefing under subsection (e).
(e)
Annual briefing
Not later than December 31, 2023, and annually thereafter until the termination of the demonstration program required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing describing the use of such demonstration program and its effects on the retention on active duty in the Air Force of rated officers described in subsection (b).
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Rated officer
The term
rated officer
means an officer specified in section 9253 of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Air Force.
(g)
Termination
This section shall terminate on December 31, 2028.
