1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
End Lockdowns and Vaccine Mandates Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
States and localities have violated the rights of American citizens to assemble by refusing them entry into churches, places of business, and entertainment venues.
(2)
States and localities have restricted the rights of American citizens by denying men and women the ability to earn a living and provide for a family through forced inoculation of the COVID–19 vaccine.
3.
Ending lockdowns; allowing the unvaccinated to participate in normal life
A State, a political subdivision thereof, and the Federal Government, may not forbid people in the hopes of containing a communicable disease from—
(1)
entering or remaining in a place of business, including but not limited to restaurants, movie theaters, stadiums, or concert venues; or
(2)
opening their places of business or selling goods or services at a physical location.
4.
Ending vaccine mandates
A State, a political subdivision thereof, or the Federal Government may not—
(1)
make a condition of employment whether someone has been inoculated with a vaccine; or
(2)
discriminate in employment, including but not limited to reducing wages, refusing to increase wages, or refusing a promotion, based on whether an individual has been inoculated or will be inoculated with a vaccine.
5.
Private right of action
A citizen of the United States who has experienced violations under this Act may assert that violation as a claim or defense in a judicial proceeding and obtain appropriate relief against the Federal Government, a State, or a locality.
6.
Prohibition on use of Federal funds
(a)
In general
No Federal funds are authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available to a State or political subdivision under any program for which appropriations are provided on a discretionary basis if the head of the Federal department or agency administering such program determines that such State or political subdivision has violated any provision of this Act.
(b)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act may be construed to alter, affect, or otherwise limit any Federal payment to which an individual is entitled under a provision of law.
7.
Severability
The provisions of this legislation shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof.
8.
Definition of a communicable disease
In this Act, the term
communicable disease
is a disease that can spread from one person to another through direct or indirect contact.
