1.
Confidential review of draft registration statements and deadline for filing public registration statements
(a)
Securities Act of 1933
Section 6(e) of the Securities Act of 1933 (
15 U.S.C. 77f(e)
) is amended—
(1)
in the heading of the subsection, by striking
Emerging Growth Companies
and inserting
Confidential review of draft registration statements
;
(2)
by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
(1)
In general
Any issuer may, with respect to an initial public offering or follow-on offering, confidentially submit to the Commission a draft registration statement, for confidential nonpublic review by the staff of the Commission prior to public filing, provided that the initial confidential submission and all amendments thereto shall be publicly filed with the Commission not later than—
(A)
in the case of an initial public offering, 10 days before the effective date of such registration statement; or
(B)
in the case of a follow-on offering, 48 hours before the effective date of such registration statement.
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Follow-on offering defined
In this subsection, the term
follow-on offering
means an offering by an issuer during the 12-month period beginning on the effective date of the initial public offering of the issuer or the initial listing date of the issuer on a national securities exchange.
.
(b)
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
15 U.S.C. 78l
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(m)
Confidential review of draft registration statements
(1)
In general
Any issuer may, with respect to a registration required under this section, confidentially submit to the Commission a draft registration statement, for confidential nonpublic review by the staff of the Commission prior to public filing, provided that the initial confidential submission and all amendments thereto shall be publicly filed with the Commission not later than 10 days before the effective date of such registration statement.
(2)
Confidentiality
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the Commission shall not be compelled to disclose any information provided to or obtained by the Commission pursuant to this subsection. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States Code, this subsection shall be considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552. Information described in or obtained pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed to constitute confidential information for purposes of section 24(b)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
.
