1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Emergency Relief from Duties Act
.
2.
Emergency waiver of countervailing and antidumping duties relating to fertilizer or fertilizer ingredients
(a)
Petition
Any covered party may petition the Commission to waive countervailing duties or antidumping duties assessed for covered merchandise under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.
), or renew any such waiver, if there is an emergency situation that—
(1)
limits the production in the United States of that merchandise in a manner that causes economic hardship for users of that merchandise or merchandise made from that merchandise; or
(2)
would result in a supply and demand disruption that substantially increases the price of that merchandise or merchandise made from that merchandise.
(b)
Public comment
The Commission shall permit the public to submit comments concerning any petition for a waiver or renewal under subsection (a) for a period of not less than 30 days.
(c)
Final decision on waiver or renewal
Not later than 30 days after the close of a public comment period under subsection (b) concerning a petition for a waiver or renewal under subsection (a), the Commission shall issue a final decision concerning that waiver or renewal.
(d)
Period of waiver
Any waiver or renewal under this section shall be for a period of one year.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the United States International Trade Commission.
(2)
Covered merchandise
The term
covered merchandise
means any fertilizer or ingredient used to make fertilizer.
(3)
Covered party
The term
covered party
means any of the following:
(A)
An interested party, as that term is defined in section 771(9) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1677(9)
), that is a United States person.
(B)
A coalition or trade association representative of agricultural producers or growers in the United States if those producers or growers utilize covered merchandise subject to countervailing duties or antidumping duties assessed under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.
) or merchandise made from covered merchandise subject to those duties.
(4)
Emergency situation
The term
emergency situation
includes the following:
(A)
Acts of God, such as severe acts of nature or weather events including floods, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, and explosions.
(B)
War, acts of terrorism, and epidemics.
(C)
Acts of governmental authorities such as expropriation, condemnation, and changes in laws and regulations.
(D)
Strikes and labor disputes.
(E)
Major accidents.
