1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop China’s Financing of Russia’s Invasion Act
.
2.
Certification by United States Trade Representative
Not later than 10 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the United States Trade Representative shall certify to the President whether China has increased the volume of wheat and barley imported from Russia relative to the volume imported on February 1, 2022.
3.
Imposition of additional tariffs
Upon an affirmative certification under section 2, the President shall, using all authorities granted to the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
) relating to the regulation of imports, impose on each article classifiable under section I, II, or III of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States that originates from China and is imported into the customs territory of the United States (as such term is defined in General Note 2 to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States) an additional tariff of 20 percent of the value of such article.
4.
Relaxation of additional tariffs
(a)
In general
The additional tariffs imposed pursuant to section 3 shall be removed beginning on the day after the date described in subsection (b).
(b)
Date described
The date described in this subsection is the first date on which each of the following has occurred:
(1)
Either—
(A)
the United States Trade Representative certifies to the President that the volume of Chinese imports of Russian wheat and barley has returned to or fallen below the volume imported on February 1, 2022; or
(B)
the Secretary of State certifies to the President that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has ceased.
(2)
The President transmits to Congress the applicable certification described in paragraph (1).
(3)
There is enacted statutory approval of such certification and for the removal of the additional tariffs.
5.
Cooperation and accountability at the World Trade Organization
The United States Trade Representative shall use the voice and influence of the United States at the World Trade Organization to—
(1)
condemn the recent aggression, human rights abuses, and war crimes by Russia;
(2)
encourage China and all other countries to not economically help the Russian Federation pay for its war by increasing the volume of their trading relationships with the Russian Federation while the violent and unprovoked invasion transpires; and
(3)
consider further steps with the view to suspend the Russian Federation’s participation in the World Trade Organization.
