1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ukrainian Fighter Pilots Act
.
2.
Expansion of cooperation and training with Ukraine
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated, from amounts authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 541 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2347
; relating to international military education and training) and amounts authorized to be appropriated to build the capacity of foreign security forces pursuant to section 333 of title 10, United States Code, $100,000,000. Amounts so authorized shall be made available to provide assistance to Ukrainian military pilots (and, as appropriate, other Ukrainian Forces involved in flying or maintaining F–15 and F–16 aircraft) for the following purposes:
(1)
Training and familiarity building with the F–15, F–16, and other air platforms as appropriate for air-to-air combat.
(2)
Training on the use of munitions sets determined appropriate by the Secretary of Defense, such as AIM–9X2 or AIM–9M.
(3)
Establishing a rapport between the Armed Forces of the United States and the Armed Forces of Ukraine to build partnerships for the future.
(4)
Enhancement of capabilities for aerial combat operations.
(5)
Focusing on the ability of Ukraine to teach current and future pilots on the F–15, F–16, and other air platforms in Ukraine and elsewhere, especially during the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine.
(6)
Fostering a better understanding of the air platforms, tactics, and techniques of the United States and other member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
(b)
Notice to Congress
Not later than 15 days before providing assistance or support using amounts made available pursuant to the authorization under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a notification containing the following elements:
(1)
A detailed description of the assistance or support to be provided, including—
(A)
the objectives of such assistance or support;
(B)
the budget for such assistance or support; and
(C)
the expected or estimated timeline for delivery of such assistance or support.
(2)
A description of such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
