1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Encouraging Private Investment for Better Broadband Act
.
2.
Modification of rules for using private activity bonds for broadband projects
(a)
In general
Section 142(n)(1)(A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(1)
by striking
25 megabits
and inserting
100 megabits
, and
(2)
by striking
3 megabits
and inserting
20 megabits
.
(b)
Exception from volume cap
Section 146(g) of such Code is amended—
(1)
by striking
or (15)
in paragraph (3) and inserting
(15), or (16)
,
(2)
by adding
and
at the end of paragraph (4), and
(3)
by striking paragraph (5) and redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (5).
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to bonds issued after the date of the enactment of this Act.
3.
Report to Congress and stakeholder input
(a)
Report to Congress
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Federal Communications Commission shall jointly submit to Congress a written report which includes—
(1)
the total number of private activity bonds for qualified broadband projects issued by States and their political subdivisions,
(2)
the number of such projects that have been completed,
(3)
the number of such projects that defaulted or were not completed,
(4)
the increase in the number of individuals with access to 100 megabits per second downstream and 20 megabits per second upstream after the date of the enactment of this Act,
(5)
the total dollar amount of private activity bonds for qualified broadband projects issued after the date of the enactment of this Act, and
(6)
a report regarding the identification of matters described in subsection (b).
(b)
Stakeholder input
For purposes of preparing the report described in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury and the Federal Communications Commission shall solicit input from appointed representatives of the Governor of each State as well as representatives of the three largest private internet service providers in each State measured by annual reported revenue, including input related to the identification of any provision of Federal law, or lack thereof, which limits the volume of investment in private activity bonds for qualified broadband projects, including census mapping, right-of-way and easement issues, competition with existing grant programs, or any other matter which limits such investment. If the representatives appointed by any Governor under the preceding sentence do not include at least one representative of an internet service provider that primarily services rural communities and at least one representative of an internet service provider organized as a cooperative, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Federal Communications Commission shall solicit input from one or more of such representatives without regard to whether they have been appointed by such Governor. The preceding sentence shall not apply to the extent that a State does not have at least one of the internet service providers described in such sentence.
