1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Federal Investigations of Organized Retail Crime Act of 2022
.
2.
Improving coordination in Federal investigations of retail crime
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Postmaster General, and the heads of relevant Federal agencies shall collaborate to develop a strategy to identify how each agency can coordinate to—
(1)
improve information sharing on organized retail crime networks between the Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Homeland Security Investigations, the Secret Service, the United States Postal Service, and other relevant Federal agencies;
(2)
assist State and local law enforcement in compiling materials and evidence needed for prosecution of organized retail crime; and
(3)
increase cooperation and the sharing of information with the retail industry, State retail crime task forces, and other retail crime task forces.
(b)
Reporting requirement
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, Postmaster General, and the head of any other relevant agency shall coordinate to submit a report to the relevant committees on the strategy developed pursuant to subsection (a).
(c)
GAO Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall publish a report on private sector and law enforcement collaboration to deter and investigate organized retail crimes.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Organized retail crime
The term
organized retail crime
means the coordinated unlawful acquisition of retail goods through theft, embezzlement, fraud, or other unlawful means for the purpose of selling or distributing such unlawfully obtained items in the stream of commerce.
(2)
Organized retail crime network
The term
organized retail crime network
means a criminal network engaged in organized retail crime.
(3)
Relevant Federal agency
The term
relevant Federal agency
means any Federal agency determined by the Attorney General and Secretary of Homeland Security to have a role in information sharing and investigations with respect to organized crime.
(4)
Relevant committee
The term
relevant committee
means the House Committee on the Judiciary, the House Committee on Homeland Security, the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, and the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee.
