1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Rescue Endangered SIVs and Citizens and Urgently Evacuate to Safety Act of 2022
or the
RESCUES Act of 2022
.
2.
Reporting requirements on evacuation operations
(a)
Report
On the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on funding provided by the Department of State to nongovernmental entities for the purposes of evacuating covered individuals from Afghanistan.
(b)
Contents of report
The report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
The total amount allocated for expenditure and the total amount expended by the Department of State during the period beginning on August 15, 2021, and ending on the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, to nongovernmental entities for purposes of evacuating covered individuals from Afghanistan, including for the provision of flights, visa and passport fees, and housing and food costs.
(2)
A list of each nongovernmental entity that received funding from the Department of State for the purposes of evacuating covered individuals from Afghanistan during the period described in paragraph (1).
(3)
A breakdown of how funding provided to each nongovernmental entity by the Department of State during the period described in paragraph (1) was used by each entity, including breakdowns of any taxes, duties, or fees paid to the Taliban (including any entity of the Taliban-controlled government).
(4)
The number of covered individuals who were evacuated from Afghanistan during the period described in paragraph (1), disaggregated by the categories of covered individuals described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of section 4.
(5)
The number of covered individuals described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 4 who, on the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, are still seeking evacuation from Afghanistan.
(6)
The requirements put in place by the Department of State for nongovernmental entities to receive funding from the Department for purposes of evacuating covered individuals from Afghanistan.
3.
Report on provision of funding
On the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on methods used by the Department of State to prevent waste, fraud, abuse, or diversion to unintended beneficiaries of funding provided to a nongovernmental entity for purposes of evacuating covered individuals from Afghanistan.
4.
Covered individual defined
In this Act, the term
covered individual
means—
(1)
a national of the United States;
(2)
an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States;
(3)
a national of Afghanistan who has been issued a special immigrant visa;
(4)
a national of Afghanistan who has applied for a special immigrant visa; and
(5)
a national of Afghanistan who is eligible for Priority 1, Priority 2, or Priority 3 processing under the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program.
