1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting America from IRGC Terrorists Act
.
2.
Additional written questions on visa application forms
(a)
Nonimmigrant and immigrant visa application forms
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall revise the nonimmigrant and immigrant visa application forms to include, for an alien who indicates on such application that the alien’s place of birth or country of origin is Iran, questions on the following:
(1)
Whether the alien has ever served in an official or unofficial capacity in the executive, parliamentary, or judicial branches of the Iranian Government, or the Office of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran, including as an appointee, advisor, or assistant.
(2)
In the case that the answer to the question posed pursuant to paragraph (1) is yes, require an answer to each of the following:
(A)
Whether the alien has ever performed any law enforcement or national security functions for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the police, or its special units, or any state-sponsored vigilante organizations, such as Ansar-e Hezbollah.
(B)
Whether the alien has ever rendered a financial transaction or transactions, of any financial service to or for, or on behalf of the Islamic Republic of Iran in violation of United States sanctions.
(C)
Whether the alien has ever acquired or attempted to acquire any good, service, or technology subject to United States export control restrictions to or for the Islamic Republic of Iran, including—
(i)
sections 742.8 and 746.7 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations); and
(ii)
sections 560.204 and 560.205 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations).
(3)
Whether the alien is or has been a member of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (in this section, referred to as
IRGC
) or any of its branches, including the IRGC Aerospace Force, its Space Command or UAV Command subunits, the IRGC Navy, the IRGC Ground Force, the IRGC Quds Force, the IRGC Intelligence Organization, the IRGC Intelligence Protection Organization, the IRGC Cyber-Defense Command, the IRGC Ansar al-Mahdi Protection Unit, the IRGC Vali-e Amr Unit, IRGC provincial commands, the Khatam al-Anbiya Construction Headquarters, the IRGC Cooperative Foundation, the Basij Resistance Force or any of its subunits, such as the Imam Hossein Brigades or the Imam Ali Brigades, or the Basij Cooperative Foundation.
(4)
In the case that the answer to the question posed pursuant to paragraph (3) is yes, require an answer to each of the following:
(A)
Whether the alien has been a conscript for the IRGC.
(B)
Whether the alien has been deployed abroad by the IRGC or any of its branches or affiliates described in paragraph (3).
(C)
Whether the alien has retained an active-duty status with the IRGC or any of its branches or affiliates described in paragraph (3).
(D)
Whether the alien has participated in recruiting members or activists on behalf of the IRGC or any of its branches or affiliates described in paragraph (3).
(E)
Whether the alien has been paid, aside from conscription, for service rendered to the IRGC or any of its branches or affiliates described in paragraph (3).
3.
Additional written questions on application to register permanent residence or adjust status
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall include in an application to register permanent residence or adjust status a question on whether the alien has ever been a member of, or in any way associated with, the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, its armed or unarmed branches, subunits or subgroups, or any other Iranian state-sponsored paramilitary, vigilante or voluntary groups.
4.
Additional written questions on application for naturalization
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall include in an application for naturalization a question on whether the alien has ever been a member of, or in any way associated with, the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, its armed or unarmed branches, subunits or subgroups, or any other Iranian state-sponsored paramilitary, vigilante or voluntary groups.
