1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Behavioral Health Integration Awareness Act of 2022
.
2.
Provider outreach and reporting on certain behavioral health integration services
(a)
Outreach
The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) shall conduct outreach to physicians and appropriate non-physician practitioners participating under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.
) with respect to behavioral health integration services described by any of HCPCS codes 99492 through 99494 or 99484 (or any successor code). Such outreach shall include a comprehensive, one-time education initiative to inform such physicians and practitioners of the inclusion of such services as a covered benefit under the Medicare program, including describing the requirements to bill for such codes and the requirements for beneficiary eligibility for such services.
(b)
Reports to congress
(1)
Provider outreach
Not later than 1 year after the date of the completion of the education initiative described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report on the outreach conducted under such subsection. Such report shall include a description of the methods used for such outreach.
(2)
Utilization rates
Not later than 18 months after the date of the completion of the education initiative described in subsection (a), and two years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report on the number of Medicare beneficiaries (including those accessing services in rural and underserved areas) who, during the preceding year, were furnished services described in subsection (a) for which payment was made under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.
).
