1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Taking Action to Prevent Suicide Act
or the
TAPS Act
.
2.
Task force on the prevention of suicide by U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel
(a)
In general
The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) shall jointly establish a task force to examine matters relating to prevention of suicide by U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel.
(b)
Composition
(1)
Personnel
The task force established in accordance with subsection (a) shall consist of not more than 14 members appointed by the Commissioner of CBP from among individuals described in paragraph (2).
(2)
Individuals described
The individuals described in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
At least one CBP agent.
(B)
The Deputy Commissioner of CBP.
(C)
The Chief of the U.S. Border Patrol.
(D)
The Executive Assistant Commissioner of Air and Marine Operations of CBP.
(E)
The Executive Assistant Commissioner of Field Operations of CBP.
(F)
At least one member of the National Border Patrol Council.
(G)
At least one member of the National Treasury Employees Union.
(H)
The Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Abuse of the Department of Health and Human Services.
(I)
Persons who have experience in the following:
(i)
National suicide prevention policy.
(ii)
CBP personnel policy.
(iii)
Research in the field of suicide prevention.
(iv)
Clinical care in mental health.
(J)
At least one family member of a CBP Customs Officer who has experience working with families of CBP personnel.
(K)
At least one family member of a U.S. Border Patrol agent who has experience working with families of CBP personnel.
(3)
Limitation
To the greatest extent practicable, the Commissioner of CBP and the Secretary of HHS shall make every effort to ensure there is an equal representation of Federal and non-Federal members of the task force.
(4)
Deadline for appointment
All appointments of individuals to the task force shall be made not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(5)
Co-chairs of task force
There shall be two co-chairs of the task force, as follows:
(A)
One of the co-chairs shall be designated from among CBP personnel members. Such designation shall be made by the Commissioner of CBP at the time of appointment.
(B)
One of the co-chairs shall be designated from among non-CBP personnel members. Such designation shall be made by such non-CBP personnel members.
(c)
Assessment and recommendations on suicide prevention policy
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date on which all personnel of the task force have been appointed, the task force shall submit to the Commissioner of CBP a report containing recommendations (including recommendations for legislative or administrative action) regarding a comprehensive policy designed to prevent suicide by CBP personnel.
(2)
Utilization of other efforts
In preparing the report required under paragraph (1), the task force shall take into consideration completed and ongoing efforts by CBP to improve the efficacy of suicide prevention programs.
(3)
Elements
The recommendations referred to in paragraph (1) shall include measures to address the following:
(A)
Methods to identify trends and common causal factors in suicides by CBP personnel.
(B)
Methods to establish or update suicide education and prevention programs conducted by CBP based on identified trends and causal factors.
(C)
An assessment of current suicide education and prevention programs of CBP.
(D)
An assessment of current mental health education programs and services available to CBP personnel, and the significance of any stigma with respect to such programs and services.
(E)
An assessment of suicide incidence by CBP personnel.
(F)
The appropriate type and method of investigation to determine the causes and factors surrounding each suicide by CBP personnel.
(G)
The qualifications of individuals appointed to conduct an investigations of suicides by CBP personnel.
(H)
The information required by an investigation to determine the causes and factors regarding suicides by CBP personnel.
(I)
The appropriate reporting requirements after the conclusions of investigations conducted on suicides by CBP personnel.
(J)
The appropriate official or executive agent within the Department of Homeland Security to receive and analyze reports on investigations of suicides by CBP personnel.
(K)
The appropriate use of the information gathered during investigations of suicides by CBP personnel.
(L)
Methods for protecting confidentiality of information contained in reports of investigations of suicides by CBP personnel.
(d)
Administrative matters
(1)
Compensation
Each member of the task force who is a Federal employee shall serve without compensation. Non-Federal members of the task force shall be treated for purposes of section 3161 of title 5, United States Code, as having been appointed under subsection (b) of such section.
(2)
Oversight
The Commissioner of CBP and the Secretary of HHS shall oversee the activities of the task force.
(3)
Administrative support
The Commissioner of CBP and the Secretary of HHS shall provide the task force with such personnel, facilities, and other administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of the duties of the task force.
(e)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the appointment of all individuals to the task force, the task force shall submit to the Secretary of Homeland Security a report on its activities under this section. The report shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the activities of the task force.
(B)
The assessment and recommendations required under subsection (c).
(C)
Such other matters relating to the activities of the task force that the task force considers appropriate.
(2)
Transmittal to Congress
Not later than 90 days after receipt of the report under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall transmit the report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate. The Secretary may include in the transmittal such comments regarding the report as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(f)
Plan required
Not later than 180 days after receipt of the report under subsection (e)(1), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall develop a plan based on the assessments and recommendations of the task force and submit such plan to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(g)
Termination
The task force shall terminate 90 days after the date on which the report of the task force is submitted to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate pursuant to subsection (e)(2).
(h)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out this section.
