1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Early Migration Alert Program Act
or the
EMAP Act
.
2.
Early Migration Alert Program
(a)
In general
Subtitle D of title IV of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 251 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
447.
Early Migration Alert Program
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Department a program to be known as the
Early Migration Alert Program
(referred to in this section as
EMAP
).
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of EMAP is to—
(1)
lead the Department’s dissemination of information pertaining to the movement and release of aliens into the United States; and
(2)
formalize partnerships with regional stakeholders to integrate, analyze, and disseminate information pertaining to the movement and release of aliens into the United States.
(c)
Information sharing
(1)
Provision of information
(A)
In general
Not later than 24 hours before releasing an alien into the United States, the Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, shall provide to State, local, Tribal, and territorial government personnel in the relevant jurisdiction information relating to the number of such aliens to be released, the number of such aliens with known criminal histories, the initial destinations of such aliens, and the final destinations where such aliens intend to settle.
(B)
Rule of construction
Nothing in subparagraph (A) may be construed as requiring U.S. Customs and Border Protection or U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to detain an alien any longer than required by law.
(2)
Electronic mail notification service
(A)
In general
The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, shall take such actions as are necessary to develop an electronic mail notification system and a list of State, local, Tribal, and territorial government personnel who may receive information under paragraph (1).
(B)
Delivery
Information under paragraph (1) may be provided via the electronic mail notification system under subparagraph (A) only if a verified official government email address of the receiving jurisdiction is on file with EMAP.
(e)
Effective date
This section shall take effect and apply with respect to any alien who is apprehended or released on or after the date of the enactment of this section.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $400,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 and 2024 to carry out this section.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 446 the following new item:
Sec. 447. Early Migration Alert Program.
.
