1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
COVID–19 Excess Accountability and Surplus Expenditures Act
or the
CEASE Act
.
2.
Establishment
There is established a commission to be known as the
COVID–19 Funding Accountability Commission
(in this Act referred to as the
Commission
).
3.
Duties of Commission
The Commission shall assess spending by the Federal Government related to relief during the COVID–19 pandemic, including—
(1)
the total amount of money spent by the Federal Government on such relief;
(2)
the total amount of money designated by the Federal Government for such relief that has been unspent as of the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(3)
any other matters regarding such spending as the Commission determines appropriate.
4.
Members
(a)
Number and appointment
The Commission shall be composed of at least 2 but no more than 5 members from each agency (as such term is defined in section 551 of title 5, United States Code), appointed by the head of the relevant agency.
(b)
Detailees
Each member so appointed shall be a detailee, on a non-reimbursable basis, to the Commission.
(c)
Terms
Each member shall be appointed for the life of the Commission.
(d)
Compensation
Members of the Commission shall not receive any additional compensation as a result of being such a member.
5.
Powers of Commission
(a)
Hearings
The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out this Act, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence as the Commission considers appropriate.
(b)
Obtaining data
The Commission may secure directly from any department or agency of the United States information necessary to enable the Commission to carry out this Act. Upon request of the Commission, the head of that department or agency shall furnish that information to the Commission.
6.
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to Congress a report containing a detailed statement of the findings and conclusions of the Commission, together with the recommendations of the Commission for legislation, administrative actions, and any other matters the Commission considers appropriate.
7.
Termination
The Commission shall terminate after submitting the report to Congress pursuant to section 6.
