1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Free City Commission Act
.
2.
Establishment and purpose of Commission
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the legislative branch a commission to be known as the
Free City Commission
(referred to in this Act as the
Commission
).
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of the Commission is to study the effects of progressive governance on cities within the United States over the last 75 years.
3.
Composition of Commission
(a)
Members
(1)
Appointment
The Commission shall be composed of 20 members, to be appointed not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, of whom—
(A)
5 members shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate;
(B)
5 members shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate;
(C)
5 members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
(D)
5 members shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Qualifications
Members appointed under subsection (a) shall consist of individuals with expertise in any of the issues described in paragraphs (1) through (10) of section 6.
(3)
Limitation
An individual appointed to the Commission may not be an officer or employee of the Federal Government.
(4)
Chair, vice chair, and meetings
Not later than 30 days after the date on which a simple majority of the members of the Commission are appointed under paragraph (1), such members shall meet to elect a chair and vice chair from among such members and shall determine a schedule of Commission meetings.
(b)
Initial meeting
The Commission shall meet and begin the operations of the Commission not later than 30 days after the appointment of a simple majority of members of the Commission.
(c)
Quorum and vacancy
(1)
Quorum
A simple majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
(2)
Vacancy
Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers and shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
4.
Duties of Commission
The Commission shall, with respect to cities in the United States during the 75-year period preceding the date of enactment of this Act—
(1)
examine the causal link between permissive drug policies and the increase in drug violence and drug usage;
(2)
examine the effects of a lack of educational opportunities;
(3)
evaluate the success of law enforcement tactics in preventing violence and protecting civilians;
(4)
examine the prevalence of abortion in minority communities;
(5)
examine the failures of public schools in urban environments;
(6)
evaluate the success of opportunity zones;
(7)
the link between home ownership and community stability;
(8)
investigate mental health;
(9)
study signs of civic engagement like voting and parental involvement in schools;
(10)
investigate public health markers like chronic disease and sexual health;
(11)
rates of religious affiliation, participation, and belief in these communities; and
(12)
not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, submit a report on the findings under paragraphs (1) through (11) to the individuals described in section 6(b)(2).
5.
Powers of Commission
(a)
Hearings
The Commission may hold such hearings, meet and act at such times and places, and receive such evidence as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Commission.
(b)
Information from Federal agencies
(1)
In general
The Commission may access, to the extent authorized by law, from any executive department, bureau, agency, board, commission, office, independent establishment, or instrumentality of the Federal Government such information, suggestions, estimates, and statistics as the Commission considers necessary to carry out this Act.
(2)
Provision of information
On written request of the chair of the Commission, each department, bureau, agency, board, commission, office, independent establishment, or instrumentality shall, to the extent authorized by law, provide the requested information to the Commission.
(3)
Receipt, handling, storage, and dissemination
Information shall only be received, handled, stored, and disseminated by members of the Commission and its staff consistent with all applicable statutes, regulations, and Executive orders.
(c)
Assistance from Federal agencies
(1)
General Services Administration
On request of the chair of the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, administrative support and other assistance necessary for the Commission to carry out its duties.
(2)
Other departments and agencies
In addition to the assistance provided for under paragraph (1), departments and agencies of the United States may provide to the Commission such assistance as they may determine advisable and as authorized by law.
(d)
Contracting
The Commission may enter into contracts to enable the Commission to discharge its duties under this Act.
(e)
Donations
The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of donations of services or property.
(f)
Postal services
The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as a department or agency of the United States.
6.
Staff of Commission
(a)
In general
The chair of the Commission, in consultation with the vice chair, in accordance with rules agreed upon by the Commission, may appoint and fix the compensation of a staff director and such other personnel as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions, in accordance with the provisions of title 5, United States Code, except that no rate of pay fixed under this subsection may exceed the equivalent of that payable for a position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
(b)
Staff of Federal agencies
Upon request of the chair of the Commission, the head of any executive department, bureau, agency, board, commission, office, independent establishment, or instrumentality of the Federal Government may detail, without reimbursement, any of its personnel to the Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this Act. Any detail of an employee shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.
(c)
Consultant services
The Commission is authorized to procure the services of experts and consultants in accordance with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates not to exceed the daily rate paid a person occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.
7.
Travel expenses
Each member of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
8.
Federal Advisory Committee Act applicability
The provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act shall apply to the Commission, including the staff of the Commission.
9.
Reports of Commission; termination
(a)
Other reports and information
(1)
Reports
The Commission may issue additional reports as the Commission determines necessary.
(2)
Information
The Commission may hold public hearings to collect information and shall make such information available for use by the public.
(b)
Final report
(1)
In general
The Commission shall, not later than 18 months after the date of its first meeting, submit to the individuals described in paragraph (2) a final report containing specific findings, conclusions, and recommendations required under this Act as have been agreed to by a majority of Commission members.
(2)
Individuals
The individuals described in this paragraph are the President, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Attorney General, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the minority leader of the House of Representatives, the majority leader of the Senate, and the minority leader of the Senate.
(c)
Termination
(1)
In general
The Commission, and all the authorities of this Act, shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
(2)
Records
Not later than the date of termination of the Commission under paragraph (1), all records and papers of the Commission shall be delivered to the Archivist of the United States for deposit in the National Archives.
