1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Service Restoration Act
.
2.
Protections for members of the Armed Forces who refuse to receive vaccinations against COVID–19
(a)
Prohibitions
(1)
Federal funding
No Federal funds may be used to require a member of the Armed Forces to receive a vaccination against COVID–19.
(2)
Adverse action
The Secretary concerned may not take any adverse action against a member of the Armed Forces solely on the basis that such member refuses to receive a vaccination against COVID–19.
(b)
Reinstatement
(1)
Requirement
At the election of a covered individual, the Secretary concerned shall reinstate such covered individual—
(A)
as a member of the Armed Force concerned; and
(B)
in the grade held by such covered individual immediately before the involuntary separation of the covered individual.
(2)
Computation of retired or retainer pay
In the case of an covered individual reinstated as a member of the Armed Forces under paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned shall include, in the computation of retired or retainer pay for such covered individual, the time between the involuntary separation of such covered individual and such reinstatement.
(c)
Expungement
The Secretary concerned shall expunge, from the service record of a covered individual or a member of the Armed Forces who received an adverse action solely on the basis of such member to receive a vaccination against COVID–19, each reference to involuntary separation, or to adverse action, solely on such basis.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
adverse action
includes the following:
(A)
Retaliation.
(B)
Punishment.
(C)
Disparate treatment.
(D)
A requirement to wear a mask.
(E)
A requirement to reside in substandard housing.
(2)
The term
covered individual
means an individual involuntarily separated from the Armed Forces solely on the basis of the refusal of such individual to receive a vaccination against COVID–19.
(3)
The term
Secretary concerned
has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
