1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Border Enforcement Security Task Force Reauthorization Act of 2022
.
2.
Updated considerations for the establishment of BEST units
(a)
in general
Paragraph (2) of section 432(c) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 240(c)
) is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
the Secretary shall consider
and inserting
the Secretary shall apply risk-based criteria that takes into consideration
;
(2)
in subparagraph (A), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
, including threats posed by transnational criminal organizations
;
(3)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
and
after the semicolon;
(4)
in subparagraph (D), by striking the period and inserting
; and
; and
(5)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
(E)
the extent to which the BEST unit would advance the Department’s homeland and border security strategic priorities and related objectives; and
(F)
whether departmental Joint Task Force operations established pursuant to section 708 and other joint cross-border initiatives would be enhanced, improved, or otherwise assisted by the BEST unit.
.
(b)
Port security
Subsection (c) of section 432 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 240(c)
) is amended by—
(1)
redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
(3)
Port security BEST units
A BEST unit established pursuant to paragraph (2) with a port security nexus shall be composed of at least one member of each of the following:
(A)
The Coast Guard Investigative Service.
(B)
The geographically-responsible Coast Guard Sector Intelligence Office.
.
(c)
Updated considerations for operation
Paragraph (2) of section 432(d) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 240(d)
) is amended by inserting
salary reimbursement,
before
operational
.
(d)
Updated report elements
Subsection (e) of section 432 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
620 U.S.C. 240(e)
) is amended to read as follows:
(e)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section and annually there after for the following five years, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report that includes the following:
(1)
A description of the effectiveness of BEST in enhancing border security, disrupting and dismantling transnational criminal organizations, and reducing drug trafficking, arms smuggling, illegal alien trafficking and smuggling, violence, and kidnapping along and across the international borders of the United States, as measured by crime statistics, including violent deaths, incidents of violence, and drug-related arrests.
(2)
An assessment of how BEST enhances information-sharing, including the dissemination of homeland security information, among Federal, State, local, Tribal, and foreign law enforcement agencies.
(3)
A description of how BEST advances the Department’s homeland and border security strategic priorities and effectiveness of BEST in achieving related objectives.
(4)
An assessment of BEST’s joint operational efforts with departmental Joint Task Force operations established pursuant to section 708 and other joint cross-border initiatives.
.
(e)
Technical amendment
Section 432 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
620 U.S.C. 240
) is amended by striking
tribal
each place such term appears and inserting
Tribal
.
