1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Robocall Trace Back Enhancement Act
.
2.
Registered consortium conducting private-led efforts to trace back the origin of suspected unlawful robocalls
(a)
Immunity for receiving, sharing, and publishing trace back information
Section 13(d) of the Pallone-Thune Telephone Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement and Deterrence Act (
Public Law 116–105
; 133 Stat. 3287) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Immunity for receiving, sharing, and publishing trace back information
(A)
Trace back immunity
No cause of action shall lie or be maintained in any court against—
(i)
the registered consortium for receiving or sharing, or publishing as permitted by subsection (e), covered information or information derived from covered information; or
(ii)
any voice service provider or other person for sharing covered information with the registered consortium.
(B)
Definition
In this paragraph, the term
covered information
—
(i)
means information regarding a suspected unlawful robocall; and
(ii)
includes—
(I)
call detail records of a suspected unlawful robocall;
(II)
the name of, and other identifying information concerning, a voice service provider that originated, carried, or routed a suspected unlawful robocall; and
(III)
information about the person who made a suspected unlawful robocall, including any contact information of an individual that such person provided to the voice service provider that originated the call.
.
(b)
Publication of list of voice service providers
Section 13(e) of the Pallone-Thune Telephone Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement and Deterrence Act (
Public Law 116–105
; 133 Stat. 3288) is amended to read as follows:
(e)
List of voice service providers
(1)
Publication of list
The Commission, or the registered consortium in consultation with the Commission, may publish a list of voice service providers based on—
(A)
information obtained by the consortium about voice service providers that refuse to participate in private-led efforts to trace back the origin of suspected unlawful robocalls; and
(B)
other information the Commission or the consortium may collect about voice service providers that are found to originate, carry, or route substantial amounts of unlawful robocalls.
(2)
Enforcement
The Commission may take enforcement action based on the information described in paragraph (1).
.
