1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Japanese American World War II History Network Act
.
2.
Japanese American World War II History Network
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the
Secretary
) shall establish, within the National Park Service, a program to be known as the
Japanese American World War II History Network
(hereinafter referred to as the
Network
).
(b)
Duties of Secretary
In carrying out the Network, the Secretary shall—
(1)
review studies and reports to complement and not duplicate studies of Japanese American World War II history and Japanese American experiences during World War II, including studies related to relocation centers and confinement sites, that are underway or completed;
(2)
produce and disseminate appropriate educational materials, such as handbooks, maps, interpretive guides, or electronic information relating to Japanese American World War II history and Japanese American experiences during the war, including relocation centers and confinement sites;
(3)
enter into appropriate cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding to provide technical assistance under subsection (c); and
(4)
(A)
create and adopt an official, uniform symbol or device for the Network; and
(B)
issue regulations for the use of the symbol or device adopted under subparagraph (A).
(c)
Elements
The Network shall encompass the following elements:
(1)
All units and programs of the National Park Service that are determined by the Secretary to relate to Japanese American World War II history and Japanese American experiences during the war, including relocation centers and confinement sites.
(2)
With the consent of the property owner, other Federal, State, local, Tribal, and privately owned properties that—
(A)
relate to Japanese American World War II history and Japanese experiences during the war, including relocation centers and confinement sites;
(B)
have a verifiable connection to Japanese American World War II history and Japanese experiences during the war, including relocation and confinement sites; and
(C)
are included in, or determined by the Secretary to be eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places.
(3)
Other governmental and nongovernmental facilities and programs of an educational, research, or interpretive nature that are directly related to Japanese American World War II history and the experiences of Japanese Americans during the war, including relocation centers and confinement sites.
3.
Cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding
To achieve the purposes of this Act and to ensure effective coordination of the Federal and non-Federal elements of the Network described in section 2(c) with units of the National Park System and programs of the National Park Service, including the Japanese American Confinement Sites Program, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding with, and provide technical assistance to the heads of other Federal agencies, States, units of local government, Tribes, regional governmental bodies, and private entities.
4.
Sunset
The authority of the Secretary under this Act shall expire 7 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
