1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fairness for Responsible Borrowers Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The executive branch does not have the statutory authority to cancel student loans on a large scale.
(2)
Student loan forgiveness is unfair to those who have already paid off their loans and to those who did not attend college.
(3)
Student loan forgiveness is inherently regressive and would disproportionately benefit upper-class Americans.
(4)
An undergraduate degree is by no means the only option for a successful career path.
(5)
Community and technical colleges are a fantastic way for students to learn a valuable skill set without taking on a large debt burden.
3.
Prohibition on mass cancellation of student loans
(a)
Prohibition
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Attorney General shall not take any action to cancel or forgive the outstanding balances, or portion of balances, of covered loans, except as provided in paragraph (2).
(2)
Exemption
The prohibition described in paragraph (1) shall not apply to targeted Federal student loan forgiveness, cancellation, or repayment programs carried out under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.
).
(b)
Definitions
In this section, the term
covered loan
means—
(1)
a loan made, insured, or guaranteed under part B, D, or E of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.
; 1087a et seq.; 1087aa et seq.) before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act; or
(2)
a loan under the Health Education Assistance Loan Program under title VII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 292 et seq.
) made before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Limitation
The Secretary of Education, the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Attorney General may not implement, or publish in any form, any regulation, or take any action, that modifies, alters, amends, cancels, discharges, forgives, or defers the repayment of any student debt not expressly permitted within statute or regulation, regarding covered loans, except to the extent that such regulation or action reflects the clear and unequivocal intent of Congress in legislation.
