1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Keep SNAP and WIC Funded Act of 2025
.
2.
Uninterrupted benefits under supplemental nutrition assistance program and
special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children
(a)
In general
In fiscal year 2026, for any period during which interim continuing appropriations or full-year appropriations for that fiscal year have not been enacted for the Department of Agriculture, there are appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as are necessary—
(1)
to provide uninterrupted benefits under the supplemental nutrition assistance program established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.
);
(2)
to provide consolidated block grants under section 19 of that Act (
7 U.S.C. 2028
); and
(3)
to carry out without interruption the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children established by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 1786
).
(b)
Retroactivity
The appropriations under subsection (a) shall include any amounts necessary for payment of any missed benefits described in that subsection during the period beginning on September 30, 2025, and ending on the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Termination
Appropriations shall be made available pursuant to subsection (a) until the earlier of—
(1)
the date of enactment into law of appropriations (including a continuing appropriation) for the Department of Agriculture for fiscal year 2026; and
(2)
September 30, 2026.
(d)
Reimbursements to States
The Secretary of Agriculture shall use the amounts made available pursuant to subsection (a) to reimburse State agencies for costs incurred in carrying out the supplemental nutrition assistance program established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.
), including consolidated block grants under section 19 of that Act (
7 U.S.C. 2028
), and the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children established by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 1786
), including the cost of benefits issued under those programs, during a lapse in appropriations for those programs, to the extent that the State agency carried out those programs in accordance with Federal law (including regulations) during that lapse.
(e)
Charge to future appropriations
Expenditures made pursuant to this Act shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
