1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Agricultural Biotechnology Coordination Act
.
2.
Office of Biotechnology Policy, Department of Agriculture
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 is amended by inserting after section 222 (
7 U.S.C. 6923
) the following:
223.
Office of Biotechnology
Policy
(a)
Prioritizing biotechnology
The Secretary shall prioritize biotechnology in the Department by providing for the effective coordination of policies and activities with respect to biotechnology, biomanufacturing, synthetic biology, and related emerging technologies.
(b)
Establishment of Office
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish within the Department an office, to be known as the
Office of Biotechnology Policy
(referred to in this section as the
Office
).
(2)
Director
The Office shall be headed by a Director, who shall report directly to the Secretary (or a designee).
(c)
Duties
The Office shall be responsible for—
(1)
the development and coordination of policies, activities, and services of the Department with respect to biotechnology and related topics, including—
(A)
research and development;
(B)
communication, extension, and education;
(C)
regulation and labeling; and
(D)
commercialization, use, and trade;
(2)
assisting other offices and agencies of the Department in fulfilling responsibilities relating to biotechnology under applicable law; and
(3)
carrying out such other duties as are required under law or determined to be appropriate by the Secretary.
(d)
Interagency coordination
In support of the duties under this section, the Office shall provide leadership to ensure coordination of interagency activities with—
(1)
the Environmental Protection Agency;
(2)
the Food and Drug Administration; and
(3)
other relevant Federal and State agencies.
(e)
Consultation
In carrying out the duties under this section, the Office shall consult as necessary with biotechnology developers, academics, agricultural producers, and other entities that may be affected by biotechnology-related activities or actions of the Department or other Federal or State agencies.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 296(b) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (
7 U.S.C. 7014(b)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(11)
The authority of the Secretary to carry out section 223.
.
