118 HCON 98 IH: Affirming the vital importance to the United States and its allies and partners of actions necessary to preserve peace, security, and freedom of navigation in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-03-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. CON. RES. 98
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 13, 2024
Mr. Tony Gonzales of Texas
(for himself,
Mr. Armstrong
,
Mr. Rutherford
,
Mr. LaLota
,
Mr. Ciscomani
,
Mr. Carter of Texas
,
Mr. Baird
,
Mr. Mills
,
Mr. Luttrell
, and
Mr. Davis of North Carolina
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Affirming the vital importance to the United States and its allies and partners of actions necessary to preserve peace, security, and freedom of navigation in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.
Whereas the Iranian-backed Houthis, have launched more than 45 attacks on ships in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden since November 19, 2023;
Whereas the Red Sea is a vital artery for trade and commerce, accounting for nearly 15 percent of the world’s maritime traffic;
Whereas the Islamic Republic of Iran and it’s Hezbollah proxies are actively threatening regional and global stability by providing funding, training and advance missiles and drones, and other forms of support to the Houthis;
Whereas this support has enabled the Houthis to attack commercial shipping vessels in the Gulf of Aden region;
Whereas the United States and its allies and regional partners have engaged in extensive activities to secure maritime freedom in the Gulf of Aden;
Whereas, on January 11, 2024, 2 United States Navy SEALs were killed in action during an operation to seize Iranian weapons bound for the Houthis;
Whereas the Iran-backed Houthis’ continued attacks on United States and allied interests in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden region is having a significant economic impact, including increased shipping costs and shipping delays;
Whereas the United States and its allies have demonstrated their commitment to supporting freedom of navigation in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden; and
Whereas the free flow of trade through the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden region is of vital interests to the United States and the global economy: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
it is the sense of Congress that—
(A)
United States forces in the Gulf of Aden and Red Sea should take actions necessary to restore deterrence against threats to safeguard the safety and security of the interests of the United States;
(B)
the President should continue to consult to the maximum extent practicable with the leadership of Congress in advance of authorizing military responses to attacks on United States forces and interests resulting from the situation in the gulf; and
(C)
the President should report to Congress in a timely manner on incidents involving the United States forces in the region;
(2)
Congress supports the President’s decision to designate the Houthis as a specially designated global terrorist group and urges the Secretary of State to designate the Houthis as a foreign terrorist organization; and
(3)
Congress declares its support for protecting freedom of navigation in the Gulf of Aden and Red Sea including through initiatives involving cooperation with United States allies and partners, and appropriate actions to combat the threat posed by Iran-backed terrorism.
