118 HCON 40 IH: Expressing support for local law enforcement officers and condemning efforts to defund or dismantle local law enforcement agencies.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 40
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 5, 2023
Mr. Buck
(for himself and
Mr. Biggs
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing support for local law enforcement officers and condemning efforts to defund or dismantle local law enforcement agencies.
Whereas our brave men and women in local law enforcement work tirelessly to protect the communities they serve;
Whereas local law enforcement officers are tasked with upholding the rule of law and ensuring public safety;
Whereas local law enforcement officers selflessly put themselves in harm’s way to fight crime, get drugs off our streets, and protect the innocent;
Whereas, in the summer of 2020, looting, rioting, and violence in major cities caused the destruction of many shops, restaurants, and businesses;
Whereas, in 2020, the United States tallied more than 21,000 murders—the highest total since 1995 and 4,900 more than in 2019;
Whereas leftist activists and progressive politicians called for the defunding and dismantling of local police departments across the country and actively encouraged resentment toward local law enforcement;
Whereas the defund the police movement vilifies and demonizes local law enforcement officers and puts them at greater risk of danger;
Whereas many local jurisdictions defunded their police departments and saw a subsequent increase in violent crime;
Whereas violent leftist extremists have repeatedly attacked and assaulted local law enforcement officers; and
Whereas local law enforcement officers deserve our respect and profound gratitude: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
recognizes and appreciates the dedication and devotion demonstrated by the men and women of local law enforcement who keep our communities safe; and
(2)
condemns calls to defund, disband, dismantle, or abolish the police.
