118 HCON 73 IH: Condemning the Cuban regime and the Chinese Communist Party for their reported intent to build a joint military training base on the island of Cuba, 100 miles from the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-10-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 73
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 6, 2023
Mr. Mooney
(for himself,
Mr. Diaz-Balart
,
Mr. Gimenez
,
Ms. Salazar
,
Mr. Norman
,
Mr. Smith of New Jersey
,
Mr. Waltz
, and
Ms. Lee of Florida
) submitted the following concurrent resolution
October 25, 2023
Referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Condemning the Cuban regime and the Chinese Communist Party for their reported intent to build a joint military training base on the island of Cuba, 100 miles from the United States.
Whereas it is the concurrent sense of Congress that any plan by the Cuban regime and the Chinese Communist Party to create a new joint military training base on the island of Cuba poses a threat to the national security interests of the United States;
Whereas this joint military training base would expand the Chinese Communist Party's presence in Cuba;
Whereas the Chinese Communist Party has supported the Cuban regime in the establishment and administration of the strategically located, special economic zone, deep-water port at Mariel helping to prop up Cuba’s failed socialist economy;
Whereas the Cuban regime is a United States designated State Sponsor of Terrorism;
Whereas, in 2015, Colombian authorities uncovered defense articles and ammunition, including gunpowder and cannon shells, destined for Cuba on a Chinese-flagged vessel;
Whereas Cuba and the Chinese Communist Party has operated intelligence facilities in Cuba since at least 2019;
Whereas Cuba and the Chinese Communist Party are able to use the intelligence facilities to tap into electronic signals from United States communications systems, radars, and weapons systems to covertly gather intelligence;
Whereas the Chinese Communist Party has recently undertaken unsafe, unprofessional, and aggressive military actions towards the United States, and its allies and partners, in the South China Sea; and
Whereas Cuba has a history of targeting the United States and serving the interests of communist powers like the former Soviet Union and China: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
condemns the Cuban regime and the Chinese Communist Party for their active discussions to create a joint military training facility that threatens the national security of the United States; and
(2)
calls for the immediate withdrawal of any Chinese Communist Party military and intelligence assets on the island of Cuba.
