115 HJ 118 IH: Authorization for Use of Military Force Against al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria
U.S. House of Representatives
2017-10-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
115th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. J. RES. 118
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 12, 2017
Mr. Coffman
(for himself,
Mr. Gallego
,
Mr. Bacon
, and
Mr. Panetta
) submitted the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
JOINT RESOLUTION
Authorizing the use of United States Armed Forces against al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and the Islamic
State of Iraq and Syria, and any associated persons engaged in hostilities
against the United States, and for other purposes.
1.
Short title
This joint resolution may be cited as the
Authorization for Use of Military Force Against al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria
.
2.
Authorization for the use of United States Armed Forces to prevent future acts of international
terrorism against the United States
(a)
Authorization
For the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this joint resolution, the President is authorized to use all necessary and appropriate force against any person described in subsection (b) in order to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such person.
(b)
Persons described
The persons described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
(2)
Any person, other than a sovereign nation, that is a part of, or substantially supports, one or more of the persons described under paragraph (1), and has engaged in hostilities against the United States, the United States Armed Forces, or civilian personnel supporting such Armed Forces.
(c)
War Powers Resolution requirements
(1)
Specific statutory authorization
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, Congress declares that this section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution.
(2)
Applicability of other requirements
Nothing in this section supercedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution.
3.
Report required
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution, and every 90 days thereafter for the following five years, the President shall submit to Congress a report describing any actions taken pursuant to the authorization under
section 3
.
4.
Repeal of prior authorizations
(a)
Repeal of 2001 authorization
The Authorization for Use of Military Force (
Public Law 107–40
;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note) is hereby repealed.
(b)
Repeal of 2002 authorization
The Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002 (
Public Law 107–243
;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note) is hereby repealed.
