Section 1

. Executive Order  , as amended (Preparation, Presentation, Filing, and  ), is further amended as follows:

(a) in section 1(f), by striking "inches" where it appears after the phrase "approximately 1" and inserting "inch";

(b) in section 4, to read as follows:

"

Sec. 4

.

Proclamations calling for the observance of special days or events

. Except as may be otherwise provided by law, responsibility for the preparation and presentation of proposed proclamations calling for the observance of special days, or other periods of time, or events shall be assigned by the Director of   to such agencies or offices as the Director may consider appropriate. Such proposed proclamations shall be submitted to the Director, or to an office within   of the President designated by the Director,   before the date of the specified observance. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2, the Director or the head of such designated office, as appropriate, shall transmit any approved commemorative proclamations to the President.";

(c) by inserting a new section 5 to read as follows:

"

Sec. 5

.

Trade Proclamations

. (a) Proclamations to be issued under the Trade Act of   or other trade law ("trade proclamations") shall be prepared by   and submitted to the Attorney General for consideration as to both form and legality. Section 2 of this order does not apply to trade proclamations.

(b) If the proposed trade proclamation is disapproved by the Attorney General, it shall not thereafter be presented to the President unless it is accompanied by a statement of the reasons for such disapproval."; and

(d) by renumbering current sections 5,  , and 7 as 6,  , and 8, respectively.

 . 2

. Executive Order   of   (Preparing   for  ), is amended as follows:

(a) in section 6(b):

(i) by inserting ", and the Director of OMB" after the phrase "the Assistant to the President for   and  ";

(ii) by striking the "and" preceding "the Assistant to the President for   and  ";

(iii) by striking "(xxviii)  ;"; and (iv) by renumbering current subsections ( ), (xxx), and (xxxi) as (xxviii), ( ), and (xxx), respectively; and

(b) in section 6(d), to read as follows: "(d)  .   may designate a subset of members of the   to serve on a   to help determine priorities and strategic direction for the  .   may establish working groups as needed, and may recharter working groups of  , as appropriate.".

 . 3

. Section 2(a)(i)(I) of Executive Order   (Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces), is amended to read as follows: "(I) the   Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of   and the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of  ;".

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an agency or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
