Section 1.

Senior  .

(a)

Establishment of Committee.

There is established an interagency Senior Intellectual   (Senior Advisory Committee), which shall be chaired by  ),   of the President.

(b)

Membership.

  shall be composed of the Coordinator, who shall chair it, and the heads of, or the deputies to the heads of:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ; and

(ix)  .

A member of   may, in consultation with the Coordinator, designate a senior-level official from the member's department or agency who holds a position for which   confirmation is required to perform   functions of the member.

(c)

Mission and Functions.

Consistent with the authorities assigned to the Coordinator, and other applicable law,   shall advise the Coordinator and facilitate the formation and implementation of each Joint Strategic Plan required   under title III of the PRO IP Act (15 U.S.C. 8113), consistent with this order.

(d)

Administration.

The Coordinator shall coordinate and support the work of   in fulfilling its functions under this order. The Coordinator shall convene the first meeting of   within   of the date of this order and shall thereafter convene such meetings as appropriate.

 . 2.

Intellectual  .

(a)

Establishment of Committee.

There is established an interagency   (Enforcement Advisory Committee), which shall be chaired by the Coordinator.   shall serve as the committee established by section 301(b)(3) of   (15 U.S.C. 8111(b)(3)).

(b)

Membership.

  shall be composed of the Coordinator, who shall chair it, and representatives from the following departments and agencies, or units of departments and agencies, who hold a position for which   confirmation is required, who are involved in intellectual property enforcement, and who are, or are designated by, the respective heads of those departments and agencies:

(i)  ;

(ii) relevant units within  , including  ,  , and  ;

(iii)  ,  , and other relevant units of  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ,  , and  ,     and  ;

(vi)  ,  , and  ;

(vii)   of  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ; and

(x) such other executive branch departments, agencies, or offices as the President determines to be substantially involved in the efforts of   to combat counterfeiting and infringement.

Pursuant to the PRO IP Act (15 U.S.C. 8111), the Coordinator shall also invite  , or a senior representative of   designated by  , to serve as a member of  .

(c)

Mission and Functions.

(i) Consistent with the authorities assigned to the Coordinator and  , and other applicable law,   shall develop each Joint Strategic Plan as provided for in title III of the PRO IP Act. In the development and implementation of the Joint Strategic Plan, the heads of the departments and agencies identified in section 2(b) of this order shall share with the Coordinator and the other members of   relevant department or agency information, to the extent permitted by law, including requirements relating to confidentiality and privacy, and to the extent that such sharing of information is consistent with law enforcement protocols for handling such information. Such information shall include:

(A) plans for addressing the Joint Strategic Plan;

(B) statistical information on the enforcement activities taken by that department or agency against counterfeiting or infringement; and

(C) recommendations to enhance cooperation among  ,  , and local authorities responsible for intellectual property enforcement.

(ii) The Coordinator may establish subgroups, consisting exclusively of   members or their designees, who must be officials from the designating member's department or agency, to support the functions of  . The subgroups shall be chaired by the Coordinator, or the Coordinator's designee with expertise and experience in intellectual property enforcement matters, and may include:

(A) an Enforcement Subcommittee; and

(B) other subcommittees as the Coordinator deems appropriate, including subcommittees addressing particular enforcement issues, efforts, training, and information sharing among departments and agencies.

(d)

Administration.

The Coordinator shall coordinate and support the work of   in fulfilling its functions under this order and under section 301(b)(3)(B) of the PRO IP Act (15 U.S.C. 8111(b)(3)(B)). The Coordinator shall convene meetings of   as appropriate.

 . 3.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within  ; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. Consistent with section 301(b)(2) of the PRO IP Act (15 U.S.C. 8111(b)(2)), the Coordinator may not control or direct any   in the exercise of its investigative or prosecutorial authority.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
