Section 1. Amendments to Executive Order.

Executive Order   of   (Establishment of    ), is hereby amended:

(a) by striking section 1, and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

"Section 1. Policy.

Faith-based and other neighborhood organizations are vital to our  's ability to address the needs of low-income and other underserved persons and communities. The   people are key drivers of fundamental change in our country, and few institutions are closer to the people than our faith-based and other neighborhood organizations. It is critical that   strengthen the ability of such organizations and other nonprofit providers in our neighborhoods to deliver services effectively in partnership with  , and local governments and with other private organizations, while preserving our fundamental constitutional commitments guaranteeing the equal protection of the laws and the free exercise of religion and forbidding the establishment of religion.   can preserve these fundamental commitments while empowering faith-based and neighborhood organizations to deliver vital services in our communities, from providing mentors and tutors to school children to giving ex-offenders a second chance at work and a responsible life to ensuring that families are  .   must also ensure that any organization receiving taxpayers' dollars must be held accountable for its performance. Through rigorous evaluation, and by offering technical assistance,   must ensure that organizations receiving Federal funds achieve measurable results in furtherance of valid public purposes."

(b) by substituting "  and Neighborhood Partnerships" for "  and Community Initiatives" each time it appears in the order; and by substituting "Office" for "White House OFBCI" each time it appears in the order.

(c) in section 3, by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsections:

"(c) to ensure that services paid for with   funds are provided in a manner consistent with fundamental constitutional commitments guaranteeing the equal protection of the laws and the free exercise of religion and prohibiting laws respecting an establishment of religion;

(d) to promote effective training for persons providing federally funded social services in faith-based and neighborhood organizations;

(e) to promote the better use of program evaluation and research, in order to ensure that organizations deliver services as specified in grant agreements, contracts, memoranda of understanding, and other arrangements;", and renumbering the subsequent subsections of section 3 accordingly.

(d) in section 4, by striking the first sentence of subsection (b), and inserting in lieu thereof the following: "The Office shall have a staff to be headed by the Special Assistant to the President and Executive Director of   and   (Executive Director)."

Sec. 2. President's   and  .

(a)

Establishment.

There is established within   of the President the President's   and   (Council).

(b)

Mission.

The   shall bring together leaders and experts in fields related to the work of faith-based and neighborhood organizations in order to: identify best practices and successful modes of delivering social services; evaluate the need for improvements in the implementation and coordination of public policies relating to faith-based and other neighborhood organizations; and make recommendations to the President, through the Executive Director, for changes in policies, programs, and practices that affect the delivery of services by such organizations and the needs of low-income and other underserved persons in communities at home and around the world.

(c)

Membership.

(1) The   shall be composed of not more than 25 members appointed by the President from among individuals who are not officers or employees of  . The members shall be persons with experience and expertise in fields related to the provision of social services by faith-based and other neighborhood organizations.

(2) Members of the   shall serve for terms of  , and may continue to serve after the expiration of their terms until the President appoints a successor. Members shall be eligible for reappointment and serve at the pleasure of the President during their terms.

(3) The President shall designate a member of the   to serve as   for a term of   at the pleasure of the President. The   may continue to serve after the expiration of the  's term and shall be eligible for redesignation by the President.

(4) The Executive Director of   and   Partnerships shall also serve as Executive Director of the  .

(5) The   shall have a staff headed by the Executive Director.

(d)

Administration.

(1) Upon the request of the  , with the approval of the Executive Director, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with information it needs for purposes of carrying out its mission.

(2) With the approval of the Executive Director, the   may request and collect information, hold hearings, establish subcommittees, and establish task forces consisting of members of the   or other individuals who are not officers or employees of  , as necessary to carry out its mission.

(3) With the approval of the Executive Director, the   may conduct analyses and develop reports or other materials as necessary to perform its mission.

(4) Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707) to the extent funds are available.

(5) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with administrative support and with such funds as may be necessary for the performance of the  's functions.

(e)

General Provisions.

(1) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (Act), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines issued by  .

(2) The   shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended by the President.

 . 3.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(1) authority granted by law to a department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(2) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) In order to ensure that Federal programs and practices involving grants or contracts to faith-based organizations are consistent with law, the Executive Director, acting through the Counsel to the President, may seek the opinion of the Attorney General on any constitutional and statutory questions involving existing or prospective programs and practices.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
