Section 1.

Revocation.

Executive Order  , is revoked. All executive directives, orders, and regulations inconsistent with this order, including but not limited to those issued to or by   ( ) from  , to  , concerning detention or the interrogation of detained individuals, are revoked to the extent of their inconsistency with this order. Heads of departments and agencies shall take all necessary steps to ensure that all directives, orders, and regulations of their respective departments or agencies are consistent with this order. Upon request, the Attorney General shall provide guidance about which directives, orders, and regulations are inconsistent with this order.

 . 2.

Definitions.

As used in this order:

(a) "Army Field Manual 2-22.3" means FM 2-22.3, Human Intelligence Collector Operations, issued by   on  .

(b) "Army Field Manual 34-52" means FM 34-52,  , issued by   on  .

(c) "Common Article 3" means Article 3 of each of the Geneva Conventions.

(d) "Convention Against Torture" means   or Degrading Treatment or Punishment,     U.N.T.S.  ,  . No. 100-20 ( ).

(e) "Geneva Conventions" means:

(i) the Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armed Forces in the  ,   (6 UST 3114);

(ii) the Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of Wounded, Sick and Shipwrecked Members of  ,   (6 UST  );

(iii) the Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War,   (6 UST 3316); and

(iv) the Convention Relative to   in Time of War,   (6 UST 3516).

(f) "Treated humanely," "violence to life and person," "murder of all kinds," "mutilation," "cruel treatment," "torture," "outrages upon personal dignity," and "humiliating and degrading treatment" refer to, and have the same meaning as, those same terms in Common Article 3.

(g) The terms "detention facilities" and "detention facility" in section 4(a) of this order do not refer to facilities used only to hold people on a short-term, transitory basis.

 . 3.

Standards and Practices for Interrogation of Individuals in   in  .

(a)

Common Article 3 Standards as a Minimum Baseline.

Consistent with the requirements of the Federal torture statute, 18 U.S.C.  , section 1003 of the Detainee Treatment Act of  , 42 U.S.C. 2000dd,  , and other laws regulating the treatment and interrogation of individuals detained in any armed conflict, such persons shall in all circumstances be treated humanely and shall not be subjected to violence to life and person (including murder of all kinds, mutilation, cruel treatment, and torture), nor to outrages upon personal dignity (including humiliating and degrading treatment), whenever such individuals are in the custody or under the effective control of an officer, employee, or other agent of   or detained within a facility owned, operated, or controlled by a department or agency of  .

(b)

Interrogation Techniques and Interrogation-Related Treatment.

Effective immediately, an individual in the custody or under the effective control of an officer, employee, or other agent of  , or detained within a facility owned, operated, or controlled by a department or agency of  , in any armed conflict, shall not be subjected to any interrogation technique or approach, or any treatment related to interrogation, that is not authorized by and listed in Army Field Manual 2-22.3 (Manual). Interrogation techniques, approaches, and treatments described in the Manual shall be implemented strictly in accord with the principles, processes, conditions, and limitations the Manual prescribes. Where processes required by the Manual, such as a requirement of approval by specified   officials, are inapposite to a department or an agency other than  , such a department or agency shall use processes that are substantially equivalent to the processes the Manual prescribes for  . Nothing in this section shall preclude  , or other Federal law enforcement agencies, from continuing to use authorized, non-coercive techniques of interrogation that are designed to elicit voluntary statements and do not involve the use of force, threats, or promises.

(c)

Interpretations of Common Article 3 and the Army Field Manual.

From   forward, unless the Attorney General with appropriate consultation provides further guidance, officers, employees, and other agents of   may, in conducting interrogations, act in reliance upon Army Field Manual 2-22.3, but may not, in conducting interrogations, rely upon any interpretation of the law governing interrogation—including interpretations of Federal criminal laws,     Manual 2-22.3, and its predecessor document,   Manual 34-52—issued by   between September 11, 2001, and  .

 . 4.

Prohibition of Certain Detention Facilities, and  .

(a)

  Detention.

The   shall close as expeditiously as possible any detention facilities that it currently operates and shall not operate any such detention facility in the future.

(b)

  to Detained Individuals.

All departments and agencies of the   shall provide   with notification of, and timely access to, any individual detained in any armed conflict in the custody or under the effective control of an officer, employee, or other agent of   or detained within a facility owned, operated, or controlled by a department or agency of  , consistent with   regulations and policies.

 . 5.

Special Interagency Task Force on Interrogation and Transfer Policies.

(a)

Establishment of Special Interagency Task Force.

There shall be established a Special Task Force on Interrogation and Transfer Policies (Special Task Force) to review interrogation and transfer policies.

(b)

Membership.

The Special Task Force shall consist of the following members, or their designees:

(i) the Attorney General, who shall serve as  ;

(ii) the Director of  , who shall serve as Co-Vice-Chair;

(iii) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as Co-Vice-Chair;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Director of  ;

(vii) the Chairman of  ; and

(viii) other officers or full-time or permanent part-time employees of  , as determined by the  , with the concurrence of the head of the department or agency concerned.

(c)

Staff.

The   may designate officers and employees within   to serve as staff to support the Special Task Force. At the request of the  , officers and employees from other departments or agencies may serve on the Special Task Force with the concurrence of the head of the department or agency that employ such individuals. Such staff must be officers or full-time or permanent part-time employees of  . The   shall designate an officer or employee of   to serve as the Executive Secretary of  .

(d)

Operation.

The   shall convene meetings of  , determine its agenda, and direct its work. The   may establish and direct subgroups of the Special Task Force, consisting exclusively of members of  , to deal with particular subjects.

(e)

Mission.

The mission of the Special Task Force shall be:

(i) to study and evaluate whether the interrogation practices and techniques in Army Field Manual 2-22.3, when employed by departments or agencies outside the military, provide an appropriate means of acquiring the intelligence necessary to protect the  , and, if warranted, to recommend any additional or different guidance for other departments or agencies; and

(ii) to study and evaluate the practices of transferring individuals to other nations in order to ensure that such practices comply with the domestic laws, international obligations, and policies of   and do not result in the transfer of individuals to other nations to face torture or otherwise for the purpose, or with the effect, of undermining or circumventing the commitments or obligations of   to ensure the humane treatment of individuals in its custody or control.

(f)

Administration.

The Special Task Force shall be established for administrative purposes within   and   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, provide administrative support and funding for the Special Task Force.

(g)

Recommendations.

The Special Task Force shall provide a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for   and the Counsel to the President, on the matters set forth in subsection (d) within   of the date of this order, unless the   determines that an extension is necessary.

(h)

Termination.

The   shall terminate the Special Task Force upon the completion of its duties.

 . 6.

Construction with Other Laws.

Nothing in this order shall be construed to affect the obligations of officers, employees, and other agents of   to comply with all pertinent laws and treaties of   governing detention and interrogation, including but not limited to: the Fifth and Eighth Amendments to  ; the Federal torture statute, 18 U.S.C.  ; the War Crimes Act, 18 U.S.C.  ; the   assault statute, 18 U.S.C. 113; the   maiming statute, 18 U.S.C. 114; the   "stalking" statute, 18 U.S.C.  ; articles 93, 124, 128, and 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. 893, 924, 928, and 934; section 1003 of the Detainee Treatment Act of  , 42 U.S.C. 2000dd; section 6(c) of   of  , Public Law 109-366; the Geneva Conventions; and  . Nothing in this order shall be construed to diminish any rights that any individual may have under these or other laws and treaties. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity against  , its departments, agencies, or other entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
