Section 1.

Policy

.   must have the ability to communicate at all times and under all circumstances to carry out its most critical and time sensitive missions. Survivable, resilient, enduring, and effective communications, both domestic and international, are essential to enable the executive branch to communicate within itself and with: the legislative and judicial branches;  , local, territorial, and tribal governments; private sector entities; and the public, allies, and other nations. Such communications must be possible under all circumstances to ensure national security, effectively manage emergencies, and improve national resilience. The views of all levels of government, the private and nonprofit sectors, and the public must inform the development of national security and emergency preparedness (NS/EP) communications policies, programs, and capabilities.

 . 2.  .

 . 2.1.

Policy coordination, guidance, dispute resolution, and periodic in-progress reviews for the functions described and assigned herein shall be provided through the interagency process established in   Directive-1 of   ( ) ( ).

 . 2.2.

The Director of   ( ) shall: (a) issue an   memorandum to the NS/EP Communications Executive Committee (established in section 3 of this order) highlighting national priorities for   analyses, studies, research, and development regarding  /EP communications;

(b) advise the President on the prioritization of radio spectrum and wired communications that support  /EP functions; and

(c) have access to all appropriate information related to the test, exercise, evaluation, and readiness of the capabilities of all existing and planned NS/EP communications systems, networks, and facilities to meet all executive branch   requirements.

 . 2.3.

The Assistant to the President for   and   and the Director of   shall make recommendations to the President, informed by the interagency policy process established in  , with respect to the exercise of authorities assigned to the President under section 706 of the Communications Act of  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 606). The Assistant to the President for   and   and the Director of   shall also jointly monitor the exercise of these authorities, in the event of any delegation, through the process established in   or as the President otherwise may direct.

 . 3. The NS/EP Communications Executive Committee.

 . 3.1.

There is established an   (Executive Committee) to serve as a forum to address NS/EP communications matters.

 . 3.2.

  shall be composed of Assistant Secretary-level or equivalent representatives designated by the heads of    , Justice,  , and  ,   ( ),  , and  , as well as such additional agencies as   may designate. The designees of the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall serve as   of  .

 . 3.3.

The responsibilities of   shall be to: (a) advise and make policy recommendations to the President, through the   process, on enhancing the survivability, resilience, and future architecture of  /EP communications, including what should constitute  /EP communications requirements;

(b) develop a long-term strategic vision for   communications and propose funding requirements and plans to the President and the Director of   (OMB), through the   process, for  /EP communications initiatives that benefit multiple agencies or other Federal entities;

(c) coordinate the planning for, and provision of,  /EP communications for   under all hazards;

(d) promote the incorporation of the optimal combination of hardness, redundancy, mobility, connectivity, interoperability, restorability, and security to obtain, to the maximum extent practicable, the survivability of  /EP communications under all circumstances;

(e) recommend to the President, through the   process, the regimes to test, exercise, and evaluate the capabilities of existing and planned communications systems, networks, or facilities to meet all executive branch   communications requirements, including any recommended remedial actions;

(f) provide   updates to the Assistant to the President for   and   and the Director of  , through  , on the status of   activities and develop an   NS/EP communications strategic agenda utilizing the   process;

(g) enable industry input with respect to the responsibilities established in this section; and

(h) develop, approve, and maintain a charter for  .

 . 4.  .

 . 4.1.

The Secretary of   shall establish an   ( ) to provide full-time, expert, and administrative support for   performance of its responsibilities under section 3.3 of this order. Staff of the   shall include detailees, as needed and appropriate, from agencies represented on  .   shall provide resources to support the  . The   shall be responsive to the guidance of  .

 . 4.2.

The responsibilities of the   shall include: coordination of programs that support  /EP missions, priorities, goals, and policy; and, when directed by  , the convening of governmental and nongovernmental groups (consistent with  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.)), coordination of activities, and development of policies for senior official review and approval.

 . 5.   and  .

 . 5.1.

The Secretary of   shall: (a) oversee the development, testing, implementation, and sustainment of  /EP communications that are directly responsive to the national security needs of the President, Vice President, and senior national leadership, including: communications with or among the President, Vice President,   staff, heads of state and government, and   and   leadership;   communications; and communications among the executive, judicial, and legislative branches to support  ;

(b) incorporate, integrate, and ensure interoperability and the optimal combination of hardness, redundancy, mobility, connectivity, interoperability, restorability, and security to obtain, to the maximum extent practicable, the survivability of  /EP communications defined in section 5.1(a) of this order under all circumstances, including conditions of crisis or emergency;

(c) provide to   the technical support necessary to develop and maintain plans adequate to provide for the security and protection of  /EP communications; and

(d) provide, operate, and maintain communication services and facilities adequate to execute responsibilities consistent with Executive Order   of  , as amended.

 . 5.2.

The Secretary of   shall: (a) oversee the development, testing, implementation, and sustainment of  /EP communications, including: communications that support  ; Federal,  , local, territorial, and tribal emergency preparedness and response communications; non-military executive branch communications systems; critical infrastructure protection networks; and non-military communications networks, particularly with respect to prioritization and restoration;

(b) incorporate, integrate, and ensure interoperability and the necessary combination of hardness, redundancy, mobility, connectivity, interoperability, restorability, and security to obtain, to the maximum extent practicable, the survivability of  /EP communications defined in section 5.2(a) of this order under all circumstances, including conditions of crisis or emergency;

(c) provide to   the technical support necessary to develop and maintain plans adequate to provide for the security and protection of  /EP communications;

(d) receive, integrate, and disseminate NS/EP communications information to  , local, territorial, and tribal governments, as appropriate, to establish situational awareness, priority setting recommendations, and a common operating picture for  /EP communications information;

(e) satisfy priority communications requirements through the use of commercial, Government, and privately owned communications resources, when appropriate;

(f) maintain a joint industry-Government center that is capable of assisting in the initiation, coordination, restoration, and reconstitution of  /EP communications services or facilities under all conditions of emerging threats, crisis, or emergency;

(g) serve as the   lead for the prioritized restoration of communications infrastructure and coordinate the prioritization and restoration of communications, including resolution of any conflicts in or among priorities, in coordination with the Secretary of   when activities referenced in section 5.1(a) of this order are impacted, consistent with  . If conflicts in or among priorities cannot be resolved between  , they shall be referred for resolution in accordance with section 2.1 of this order; and

(h) within   of the date of this order, in consultation with   where appropriate, develop and submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for   and  , a detailed plan that describes   organization and management structure for its   communications functions, including  ,  ,   program,   program,  , and relevant supporting entities.

 . 5.3.

The Secretary of Commerce shall: (a) provide advice and guidance to   on the use of technical standards and metrics to support execution of  /EP communications;

(b) identify for   requirements for additional technical standards and metrics to enhance NS/EP communications;

(c) engage with relevant standards development organizations to develop appropriate technical standards and metrics to enhance NS/EP communications;

(d) develop plans and procedures concerning radio spectrum allocations, assignments, and priorities for use by agencies and executive offices;

(e) develop, maintain, and publish policies, plans, and procedures for the management and use of radio frequency assignments, including the authority to amend, modify, or revoke such assignments, in those parts of the electromagnetic spectrum assigned to  ; and

(f) administer a system of radio spectrum priorities for those spectrum-dependent telecommunications resources belonging to and operated by   and certify or approve such radio spectrum priorities, including the resolution of conflicts in or among such radio spectrum priorities during a crisis or emergency.

 . 5.4.

  shall provide and maintain a common Federal acquisition approach that allows for the efficient centralized purchasing of equipment and services that meet  /EP communications requirements. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the procurement authorities granted by law to an agency or the head thereof.

 . 5.5.

With respect to  , the  , after consultation with the heads of affected agencies, may issue such policy directives and guidance as the   deems necessary to implement this order. Procedures or other guidance issued by the heads of elements of the   shall be in accordance with such policy directives or guidelines issued by the  .

 . 5.6.

  performs such functions as are required by law, including: (a) with respect to all entities licensed or regulated by  : the extension, discontinuance, or reduction of common carrier facilities or services; the control of common carrier rates, charges, practices, and classifications; the construction, authorization, activation, deactivation, or closing of radio stations, services, and facilities; the assignment of radio frequencies to   licensees; the investigation of violations of pertinent law; and the assessment of communications service provider emergency needs and resources; and

(b) supporting the continuous operation and restoration of critical communications systems and services by assisting the Secretary of   with infrastructure damage assessment and restoration, and by providing the Secretary of   with information collected by   on communications infrastructure, service outages, and restoration, as appropriate.

 . 6.  .

All agencies, to the extent consistent with law, shall: (a) determine the scope of their  /EP communications requirements, and provide information regarding such requirements to  ;

(b) prepare policies, plans, and procedures concerning communications facilities, services, or equipment under their management or operational control to maximize their capability to respond to the NS/EP needs of  ;

(c) propose initiatives, where possible, that may benefit multiple agencies or other Federal entities;

(d) administer programs that support broad NS/EP communications goals and policies;

(e) submit reports  , or as otherwise requested, to  , regarding agency   communications activities;

(f) devise internal acquisition strategies in support of the centralized acquisition approach provided by   pursuant to section 5.4 of this order; and

(g) provide the Secretary of   with timely reporting on  /EP communications status to inform the common operating picture required under 6 U.S.C. 321(d).

 . 7. General Provisions.

(a) For the purposes of this order, the word "agency" shall have the meaning set forth in section 6.1(b) of Executive Order  .

(b) Executive Order   of  , as amended, is hereby revoked.

(c) Executive Order   of  , as amended, is further amended by striking the following language from section 2(e): "in his capacity as Executive Agent for  ".

(d) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of the OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(e) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(f) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
