Section 1.

Policy.

Approximately 54 million   are living with a disability.   has an important interest in reducing discrimination against   living with a disability, in eliminating the stigma associated with disability, and in encouraging   with disabilities to seek employment in the Federal workforce. Yet   with disabilities have an employment rate far lower than that of   without disabilities, and they are underrepresented in the Federal workforce. Individuals with disabilities currently represent just over 5 percent of the nearly 2.5 million people in the Federal workforce, and individuals with targeted disabilities (as defined below) currently represent less than 1 percent of that workforce.

On  , in   of his administration, President   signed Executive Order  , calling for an additional 100,000 individuals with disabilities to be employed by   over  . Yet few steps were taken to implement that Executive Order in  .

As the  's largest employer,   must become a model for the employment of individuals with disabilities. Executive departments and agencies (agencies) must improve their efforts to employ workers with disabilities through increased recruitment, hiring, and retention of these individuals.   is committed to increasing the number of individuals with disabilities in the Federal workforce through compliance with Executive Order   and achievement of the goals set forth therein  , including specific goals for hiring individuals with targeted disabilities.

 . 2.

Recruitment and Hiring of Individuals with Disabilities.

(a) Within   of this order, the Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and the Director of  , shall design model recruitment and hiring strategies for agencies seeking to increase their employment of people with disabilities and develop mandatory training programs for both human resources personnel and hiring managers on the employment of individuals with disabilities.

(b) Within   of the date   sets forth strategies and programs required under subsection (a), each agency shall develop an agency-specific plan for promoting employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities. The plan shall be developed in consultation with and, as appropriate, subject to approval by the Director of   and the Director of  , and shall, consistent with law, include performance targets and numerical goals for employment of individuals with disabilities and sub-goals for employment of individuals with targeted disabilities.

(c) Each agency shall designate a senior-level agency official to be accountable for enhancing employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities and individuals with targeted disabilities within the agency, consistent with law, and for meeting the goals of this order. This official, among other things, shall be accountable for developing and implementing the agency's plan under subsection (b), creating recruitment and training programs for employment of individuals with disabilities and targeted disabilities, and coordinating employment counseling to help match the career aspirations of individuals with disabilities to the needs of the agency.

(d) In implementing their plans, agencies, to the extent permitted by law, shall increase utilization of   Schedule A excepted service hiring authority for persons with disabilities and increase participation of individuals with disabilities in internships, fellowships, and training and mentoring programs.

(e)   shall assist agencies with the implementation of their plans. The Director of  , in consultation with the Director of  , shall implement a system for reporting regularly to the President, the heads of agencies, and the public on agencies' progress in implementing their plans and the objectives of this order.  , to the extent permitted by law, shall compile and post on its website Government-wide statistics on the hiring of individuals with disabilities.

 . 3.

Increasing Agencies' Retention and Return to Work of Individuals with Disabilities.

(a) The Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and  , shall identify and assist agencies in implementing strategies for retaining Federal workers with disabilities in Federal employment including, but not limited to, training, the use of centralized funds to provide reasonable accommodations, increasing access to appropriate accessible technologies, and ensuring the accessibility of physical and virtual workspaces.

(b) Agencies shall make special efforts, to the extent permitted by law, to ensure the retention of those who are injured on the job. Agencies shall work to improve, expand, and increase successful return-to-work outcomes for those of their employees who sustain work-related injuries and illnesses, as defined under   (FECA), by increasing the availability of job accommodations and light or limited duty jobs, removing disincentives for FECA claimants to return to work, and taking other appropriate measures. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Director of  , shall pursue innovative re-employment strategies and develop policies, procedures, and structures that foster improved return-to-work outcomes, including by pursuing overall reform of the FECA system. The Secretary of   shall also propose specific outcome measures and targets by which each agency's progress in carrying out return-to-work and FECA claims processing efforts can be assessed.

 . 4.

Definitions.

(a) "Disability" shall be defined as set forth in the ADA Amendments Act of  .

(b) "Targeted disability" shall be defined as set forth on the form for self-identification of disability, Standard Form 256 (SF 256), issued by  , or any replacements, updates, or revisions thereto.

(c) Not   after the date of this order and in consultation with  ,  , and  ,   shall review the effectiveness of the definition of targeted disability set forth in SF 256 and replace, update, or revise it as appropriate.

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations, and shall not be construed to require any   employee to disclose disability status involuntarily.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
