Section 1.

Policy.

Business investment in   by both domestic and foreign firms, whether in the form of new equipment or facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, is a major engine of economic growth and job creation. In an era of global capital mobility,   faces increasing competition for retaining and attracting industries of the future and the jobs they create. My Administration is committed to enhancing the efforts of   to win the growing global competition for business investment by leveraging our advantages as the premier business location in the world.

As a place to do business,   offers a hardworking, diverse, and educated workforce, strong protection of intellectual property rights, a predictable and transparent legal system, relatively low taxes, highly developed infrastructure, and access to the world's most lucrative consumer market. We welcome both domestic and foreign businesses to invest across the broad spectrum of the   market.

The   lacks the centralized investment promotion infrastructure and resources to attract business investment that is often found in other industrialized countries. Currently,   and cities are competing against foreign governments to attract business investment. Our Nation needs to retain business investment and pursue and win new investment in   by better marketing our strengths, providing clear, complete, and consistent information, and removing unnecessary obstacles to investment.

 . 2.

SelectUSA Initiative.

(a)

Establishment.

There is established  ), a Government-wide initiative to attract and retain investment in the   economy. The   is to be housed in  . The mission of this Initiative shall be to facilitate business investment in   in order to create jobs, spur economic growth, and promote   competitiveness. The   will provide enhanced coordination of Federal activities in order to increase the impact of Federal resources that support both domestic and foreign investment in  . In providing assistance, the   shall work to maximize impact on business investment, job creation, and economic growth. The Initiative shall work on behalf of the entire   and shall exercise strict neutrality with regard to specific locations within  .

(b)

Functions

.

(i) The Initiative shall coordinate outreach and engagement by   to promote   as the premier location to operate a business.

(ii) The Initiative shall serve as an ombudsman that facilitates the resolution of issues involving Federal programs or activities related to pending investments.

(iii) The Initiative shall provide information to domestic and foreign firms on: the investment climate in  ; Federal programs and incentives available to investors; and   and local economic development organizations.

(iv) The Initiative shall report   to the President through  ,  , and  , describing its outreach activities, requests for information received, and efforts to resolve issues.

(c)

Administration.

  shall provide funding and administrative support for the   through resources and staff assigned to work on the  , to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. The Secretary of   shall designate a senior staff member as the Executive Director to lead the  . The Executive Director shall coordinate activities both within   and with other executive departments and agencies that have activities relating to business investment decisions.

(d)

Federal Interagency Investment Working Group

.

(i) There is established   ( ), which will be convened and chaired by the  's Executive Director, in coordination with the Director of  .

(ii) The   shall consist of senior officials from  , the  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Transportation, Energy,  , and  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , as well as such additional executive departments, agencies, and offices as the Secretary of   may designate. Senior officials shall be designated by and report to the Deputy Secretary or official at the equivalent level of their respective offices, departments, and agencies.

(iii)   shall coordinate activities to promote business investment and respond to specific issues that affect business investment decisions.

(iv)   shall provide funding and administrative support for   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(e)

Department and Agency Participation.

All executive departments and agencies that have activities relating to business investment decisions shall cooperate with the  , as requested by the  's Executive Director, to support its objectives.

 . 3.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within  ; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
