Section 1.

Policy.

The economic and financial crisis has led to the loss of millions of   jobs, and while the economy is beginning to show signs of recovery, millions of   remain unemployed or underemployed. Creating jobs in   and ensuring a return to sustainable economic growth is the top priority for my Administration. A critical component of stimulating economic growth in   is ensuring that   businesses can actively participate in international markets by increasing their exports of goods, services, and agricultural products. Improved export performance will, in turn, create good high-paying jobs.

 ) shall be an Administration initiative to improve conditions that directly affect the private sector's ability to export. The   will help meet my  's goal of doubling exports over   by working to remove trade barriers abroad, by helping firms—especially small businesses—overcome the hurdles to entering new export markets, by assisting with financing, and in general by pursuing a Government-wide approach to export advocacy abroad, among other steps.

 . 2.

Export Promotion Cabinet.

There is established an   to develop and coordinate the implementation of the NEI.   shall consist of:

(a) the Secretary of  ;

(b) the Secretary of the  ;

(c) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(d) the Secretary of  ;

(e) the Secretary of  ;

(f) the Director of  ;

(g)  ;

(h) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(i)  ;

(j) the Chair of  ;

(k) the President of  ;

(l) the Administrator of  ;

(m) the President of  ;

(n) the Director of  ; and

(o) the heads of other executive branch departments, agencies, and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.

The Export Promotion Cabinet shall meet periodically and report to the President on the progress of the  . A member of   may designate, to perform the NEI-related functions of that member, a senior official from the member's department or agency who is a full-time officer or employee.   may also establish subgroups consisting of its members or their designees, and, as appropriate, representatives of other departments and agencies.   shall coordinate with   ( ), established by Executive Order   of September 30, 1993.

 . 3.

National Export Initiative.

The   shall address the following:

(a)

Exports by Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs).

Members of   shall develop programs, in consultation with the  , designed to enhance export assistance to SMEs, including programs that improve information and other technical assistance to first-time exporters and assist current exporters in identifying new export opportunities in international markets.

(b)

Federal Export Assistance.

Members of  , in consultation with the  , shall promote Federal resources currently available to assist exports by   companies.

(c)

Trade Missions.

The Secretary of  , in consultation with the   and, to the extent possible, with   and local government officials and the private sector, shall ensure that  -led trade missions effectively promote exports by   companies.

(d)

Commercial Advocacy.

Members of  , in consultation with other departments and agencies and in coordination with   at  , shall take steps to ensure that   commercial advocacy effectively promotes exports by   companies.

(e)

Increasing Export Credit.

The President of  , in consultation with other members of  , shall take steps to increase the availability of credit to SMEs.

(f)

Macroeconomic Rebalancing.

The Secretary of the  , in consultation with other members of  , shall promote balanced and strong growth in the global economy through   process or other appropriate mechanisms.

(g)

Reducing Barriers to Trade.

 , in consultation with other members of  , shall take steps to improve market access overseas for our manufacturers, farmers, and service providers by actively opening new markets, reducing significant trade barriers, and robustly enforcing our trade agreements.

(h)

Export Promotion of Services.

Members of   shall develop a framework for promoting services trade, including the necessary policy and export promotion tools.

 . 4.

Report to the President.

Not   after the date of this order,  , through the  , shall provide the President a comprehensive plan to carry out the goals of the NEI. The Chairman of the   shall set forth the steps taken to implement this plan in the   report to  , and   of the   and     required by the Export Enhancement Act of  , Public Law 102-249, 106 Stat.  , and Executive Order  , as amended.

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within  ; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
