Section 1

.

Policy

.   benefits from a workforce that can be recruited from the broadest and deepest pools of qualified candidates for our highly competitive, merit-based positions. The issuance of an order granting   (NCE) to certain alumni of  , the   International Scholarship Program, and   (CLS) Program, all of which are academic exchange programs carried out under the authorities of   of  , Public Law 87-256, as amended, also known as  , and   2000, title III of Public Law 106-309, would be in the best interest of  . Participants in these programs develop advanced- to superior-level skills in languages and cultural competence in regions that are strategically, diplomatically, and economically important to  . It is in the interest of   to retain the services of these highly skilled individuals, particularly given that   aided them in the acquisition of their skills. Participants in the  , Gilman, and CLS programs are drawn from highly competitive, merit-based national selection processes to which a veterans' preference applies to ensure that the most qualified individuals are selected.

Accordingly, pursuant to my authority   U.S.C. 3302(1), and in order to achieve a workforce that is drawn from all segments of society as provided in 5 U.S.C. 2301(b)(1), I find that conditions of good administration make necessary an exception to the competitive hiring rules for certain positions in the Federal civil service.

 . 2

.

Establishment

. The head of any agency in the executive branch may appoint in the competitive service any person who is certified by the Secretary of   or designee as having participated successfully in the  , Gilman, or CLS international exchange programs, and who passes such examination as   (OPM) may prescribe.

 . 3

. The Secretary of   or designee shall issue certificates, upon request, to persons whom   determines have completed the requirements of a program described in section 1 of this order.

 . 4

. Any appointment under this order shall be effected within a period of   after completion of the appointee's participation in the programs described in section 1. Such period may be extended to not   for persons who, following participation in the programs described in section 1, are engaged in military service, in the pursuit of studies at an institution of higher learning, or in other activities which, in the view of the appointing authority, warrant an extension of such period. Such period may also be extended to permit the adjudication of a background investigation.

 . 5

. A person appointed under section 2 of this order becomes a career conditional employee.

 . 6
