Section 1

.

Policy

. The purpose of this order is to maximize   ability to develop local partnerships in   to support homeland security priorities. Partnerships are collaborative working relationships in which the goals, structure, and roles and responsibilities of the relationships are mutually determined. Collaboration enables   and its partners to use resources more efficiently, build on one another's expertise, drive innovation, engage in collective action, broaden investments to achieve shared goals, and improve performance. Partnerships enhance our ability to address homeland security priorities, from responding to natural disasters to preventing terrorism, by utilizing diverse perspectives, skills, tools, and resources.

  emphasizes the importance of partnerships, underscoring that to keep our Nation safe "we must tap the ingenuity outside government through strategic partnerships with the private sector, nongovernmental organizations, foundations, and community-based organizations. Such partnerships are critical to   success at home and abroad, and we will support them through enhanced opportunities for engagement, coordination, transparency, and information sharing." This approach recognizes that, given the complexities and range of challenges, we must institutionalize an all-of-Nation effort to address the evolving threats to  .

 . 2

.

   

.

(a)

 

. There is established  ) to foster local partnerships—between   and the private sector, nongovernmental organizations, foundations, community-based organizations, and  , local, tribal, and territorial government and law enforcement—to address homeland security challenges. The   shall be chaired by the Assistant to the President for   and Counterterrorism (Chair), or a designee from  .

(b)

Council Membership

.

(i) Pursuant to the nomination process established in subsection (b)(ii) of this section, the   shall be composed of   officials who are from field offices of the executive departments, agencies, and bureaus (agencies) that are members of   established in subsection (c) of this section, and who have demonstrated an ability to develop, sustain, and institutionalize local partnerships to address policy priorities.

(ii) The nomination process and selection criteria for members of the   shall be established by  . Based on those criteria, agency heads may select and present to   their nominee or nominees to represent them on the  . The   shall consider all of the nominees and decide by consensus which of the nominees shall participate on the  . Each member agency on  , with the exception of  , may have at least one representative on the  .

(c)

 

. There is also established a  , chaired by  , to provide guidance to the   and perform other functions as set forth in this order. The   shall include a representative at the Deputy agency head level, or that representative's designee, from the following agencies:

(i)  ;

(ii) Department of the  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v) Department of the Interior;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

( ;

(xii)  ;

(   ;

( ;

( ;

(xvi) Office of the Director of  ;

( ;

(xviii) Small Business Administration; and

(xix)  .

At the invitation of the  , representatives of agencies not listed in subsection (c) of this section or other executive branch entities may attend and participate in   meetings as appropriate.

(d)

Administration

. The   or a designee shall convene meetings of  , determine their agendas, and coordinate their work. The   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees, as appropriate.

 . 3

.

Mission and Function of the Council and  

. (a) The   shall, consistent with guidance from  (i) advise the   members on priorities, challenges, and opportunities for local partnerships to support homeland security priorities, as well as regularly report to   on the  's efforts;

(ii) promote homeland security priorities and opportunities for collaboration between   field offices and  , local, tribal, and territorial stakeholders;

(iii) advise and confer with  , local, tribal, and territorial stakeholders and agencies interested in expanding or building local homeland security partnerships;

(iv) raise awareness of local partnership best practices that can support homeland security priorities;

(v) as appropriate, conduct outreach to representatives of the private sector, nongovernmental organizations, foundations, community-based organizations, and  , local, tribal, and territorial government and law enforcement entities with relevant expertise for local homeland security partnerships, and collaborate with other   bodies; and

(vi) convene an   meeting to exchange key findings, progress, and best practices.

(b) The   shall:

(i) determine the scope of issue areas the   will address and its operating protocols, in consultation with  ;

(ii) establish the nomination process and selection criteria for members of the   as set forth in section 2(b)(ii) of this order;

(iii) provide guidance to the   on the activities set forth in subsection (a) of this section; and

(iv) within   of the selection of the   members, and   thereafter, provide a report on the work of the   to the President through the  .

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) The heads of agencies participating in the   shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to implement this order. Each agency shall bear its own expense for participating in the  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof;

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals; or

(iii) the functions of  .

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and appropriate protections for privacy and civil liberties, and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
