Executive Order  —Authorizing Award of the Bronze Star Medal
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Bronze Star Medal, with accompanying ribbons and appurtenances, which was first established by Executive Order No. 9419 of  , may be awarded by the Secretary of a military department or the Secretary of the   with regard to   when not operating as a service in the  , or by such military commanders, or other appropriate officers as the Secretary concerned may designated to any person who, while serving in any capacity in or with the  ,  ,  ,  , or   of  , after  , distinguishes, or has distinguished, himself by heroic or meritorious achievement or service, not involving participation in aerial flight-

(a) while engaged in an action against an enemy of  ;

(b) while engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing foreign force; or

(c) while serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict against an opposing armed force in which   is not a belligerent party.

2. The Bronze Star Medal and appurtenances thereto shall be of appropriate design approved by the Secretary of  , and shall be awarded under such regulations as the Secretary concerned may prescribe. Such regulations shall, so far as practicable, be uniform, and those of the military departments shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of  .

3. No more than one   shall be awarded to any one person, but for each succeeding heroic or meritorious achievement or service justifying such an award a suitable device may be awarded to be worn with the medal as prescribed by appropriate regulations.

4.   or device may be awarded posthumously and, when so awarded, may be presented to such representative of the deceased as may be deemed appropriate by the Secretary of the department concerned.

5. This order shall supersede Executive Order No. 9419 of  , entitled "Bronze Star Medal". However, existing regulations prescribed under that order shall, so far as they are not inconsistent with this order, remain in effect until modified or revoked by regulations prescribed under this order by the Secretary of the department concerned.

 

 ,

 
