Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS it is vital that   be constantly informed concerning all events, activities, and conditions that might have a potential effect upon the foreign relations of this Nation and the well-being of its people; and

WHEREAS international amateur athletic competitions and related activities conducted by private individuals and organizations free from government sponsorship, interference, or control frequently make significant contributions to international good will and elevate standards of physical welfare throughout the world; and

WHEREAS these activities merit sympathetic attention and encouragement by  ; and

WHEREAS it would be advantageous for   to have the advice and assistance of other departments and agencies in discharging its responsibilities in this regard:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1 (a) . There is hereby established  . The   shall collect, exchange, and review information concerning amateur athletic matters that might tend to affect the foreign relations or general welfare of  . The   shall be composed of representatives to be designated by the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and   (in his capacity as Chairman of  ), and the heads of such other departments and agencies as the President may from time to time designate, or as may be invited to participate in the activities of the   upon its request. The head of each department or agency represented on the   shall designate one or more alternates. The representative of   shall serve as chairman of the  .

(b) As deemed necessary to facilitate its work, the   may request any executive department or agency whose activities have significant implications for the work of the   to designate a liaison officer to consult with and advise the  .

(c) The departments and agencies represented on the   shall, in accordance with law, furnish such assistance as may be required for the work of the  , in conformity with section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134, 81 U.S.C. 691).

 . 2. To facilitate the collection, coordination, and review of information by the  , the   may request information and views from   departments and agencies and from such organizations and individuals as may be willing and able to provide information pertaining to its work. The   shall, from time to time, submit reports and recommendations, as appropriate, to the President and to the Secretary of  , and shall keep officials of the departments and agencies represented on the   currently informed of its activities.

 . 3. The representative of  , in addition to serving as chairman, shall have primary responsibility for the collection of comprehensive information on current and impending developments pertaining to amateur athletics, and he shall make such information available to the  .

 

 ,

 
