Executive Order  —Establishing   on the Status of Women
 
 

WHEREAS prejudices and outmoded customs act as barriers to the full realization of women's basic rights which should be respected and fostered as part of our  's commitment to human dignity, freedom, and democracy; and

WHEREAS measures that contribute to family security and strengthen home life will advance the general welfare; and

WHEREAS it is in the national interest to promote the economy, security, and national defense through the most efficient and effective utilization of the skills of all persons, and

WHEREAS in every period of national emergency women have served with distinction in widely varied capacities but thereafter have been subject to treatment as a marginal group whose skills have been inadequately utilized; and

WHEREAS women should be assured the opportunity to develop their capacities and fulfill their aspirations on a continuing basis irrespective of national exigencies, and

WHEREAS a   should be charged with the responsibility for developing recommendations for overcoming discriminations in government and private employment on the basis of sex and for developing recommendations for services which will enable women to continue their role as wives and mothers while making a maximum contribution to the world around them:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and statutes of  , it is ordered as follows:

PART I—

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON THE STATUS OF WOMEN

 . 101. There is hereby established   on  , referred to herein as the "Commission". The   shall terminate not  .

 . 102. The   shall be composed of twenty members appointed by the President from among persons with a competency in the area of public affairs and women's activities. In addition, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of   and-Welfare, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of Agriculture and the Chairman of   shall also serve as members of the  . The President shall designate from among the membership a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman, and an Executive Vice-Chairman.

 . 103. In conformity with the Act of   (59 Stat. 134, 31 U.S.C. 691), necessary facilitating assistance, including the provision of suitable office space by  , shall be furnished the   by the   agencies whose chief officials are members thereof. An Executive Secretary shall be detailed by the Secretary of   to serve the  .

 . 104. The   shall meet at the call of the Chairman.

 . 105. The   is authorized to use the services of consultants and experts as may be found necessary and as may be otherwise authorized by law.

PART II—

DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON THE STATUS OF WOMEN

 . 201. The   shall review progress and make recommendations as needed for constructive action in the following areas:

(a) Employment policies and practices, including those on wages, under   contracts.

(b) Federal social insurance and tax laws as they affect the net earnings and other income of women.

(c) Federal and   labor laws dealing with such matters as hours, night work, and wages, to determine whether they are accomplishing the purposes for which they were established and whether they should be adapted to changing technological, economic, and social conditions.

(d) Differences in legal treatment of men and women in regard to political and civil rights, property rights, and family relations.

(e) New and expanded services that may be required for women as wives, mothers, and workers, including education, counseling, training, home services, and arrangements for care of children during  .

(f) The employment policies and practices of  , with reference to additional affirmative steps which should be taken through legislation, executive or administrative action to assure nondiscrimination on the basis of sex and to enhance constructive employment opportunities for women.

 . 202. The   shall submit a final report of its recommendations to the President by  .

 . 203. All executive departments and agencies of   are directed to cooperate with the   in the performance of its duties.

PART III—

REMUNERATION AND EXPENSES

 . 301. Members of the  , except those receiving other compensation from  , shall receive such compensation as the President shall hereafter fix in a manner to be hereafter determined.

 

 ,

 
