Executive Order 11089—Assigning Emergency Preparedness Functions to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , including authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat.  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Scope.

  (hereinafter referred to as the Commission ) shall prepare national emergency plans and develop preparedness programs for the continuing conduct of atomic energy activities of  . These plans and programs shall be designed to develop a state of readiness in these areas with respect to all conditions of national emergency, including attack upon   and, consistent with applicable provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended, will be closely coordinated with   and  .

 . 2.

Functions.

The   shall develop plans to:

(a)

Production.

Continue or resume in an emergency essential (1) manufacture, development, and control of nuclear weapons and equipment, except to the extent that the control over such weapons and equipment has been transferred to  ; (2) development and technology related to reactors; (3) process development and production of feed material, special nuclear materials, and other special products; (4) related raw materials procurement, processing, and development; and (5) repair, maintenance, and construction related to the above.

( b )

Regulation.

Continue or resume in an emergency ( 1 ) controlling the possession, use, transfer, import, and export of atomic materials and facilities, and (2) ordering the operation or suspension of licensed facilities, and recapturing from licensees, where necessary, special nuclear materials whether related to military support or civilian activities.

(c)

Public health and safety.

Shut down in anticipation of an imminent enemy attack on  , and maintain under surveillance, all  -owned facilities which could otherwise constitute a significant hazard to public health and safety; and insure the development of appropriate emergency plans for nuclear reactors and other nuclear activities licensed by the   whether privately-owned or Government-owned.

(d)

Research and development.

  and utilize the  's scientific and technological capability to meet pre-attack and post-attack priority needs of   within the framework of Federal research objectives.

( e)

Scientific, technical, and public atomic energy information.

Organize, reproduce, and disseminate appropriate public atomic energy information and scientific and technical reports and data relating to nuclear science research, development., engineering, applications, and effects to interested Government agencies, the scientific and technical communities, and approved, friendly, and cooperating foreign nations.

(f)

International atomic energy affairs.

Maintain essential liaison with foreign nations with respect to activities of mutual interest involving atomic energy.

(g)

Health services.

Assist  , and  , consistent with the above requirements, in integrating into civilian health-programs in an emergency the  's remaining health manpower and facilities not required for the performance of the  's essential emergency functions.

(h)

Damage assessment.

Maintain a capability to assess the effects of attack on the  's resources, both at national and field levels, and provide data to  .

(i)

Claimancy.

  plans to claim material, manpower, equipment, supplies, and services needed to carry out assigned responsibilities and other essential functions of the   from the appropriate agencies and work with such agencies in developing programs to insure availability of such resources in an emergency.

  3.

Resources Evaluation.

The   shall provide for appropriate participation in the national resource evaluation program administered by  .

  4.

Functional Guidance.

The  , in carrying out the functions assigned in this order, shall be guided by the following:

(a)

Interagency cooperation.

The   shall assume the initiative in developing joint plans for the coordination of emergency atomic energy programs of those departments and agencies which have responsibilities for any segment of such activities. It shall utilize to the maximum those capabilities of other agencies qualified to perform or assist in the performance of assigned functions by contractual or other agreements.

(b)

Presidential coordination.

The Director of   shall advise and assist the President in determining policy for the performance of functions under this order and in coordinating the performance of such functions with the total national preparedness program.

(c)

Emergency planning.

Emergency plans and programs, and emergency organization structure required thereby, shall be developed as an integral part of the continuing activities of the   on the basis that it will have the responsibility for carrying out such programs during an emergency. The   shall be prepared to implement all appropriate plans developed under this order. Modifications and temporary organizational changes, based on emergency conditions, will be in accordance with policy determinations by the President.

 . 5.

Emergency Action.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as conferring authority under Title III of   of  , as amended, or otherwise, to put into effect any emergency plan, procedure, policy, program, or course of action prepared or developed pursuant to this order. Such authority is reserved to the President.

  6.

Redelegation.

The   is hereby authorized to redelegate within the   the functions hereinabove assigned to it.

  7.

Prior Actions.

To the extent of any inconsistency between the provisions of any prior order and the provisions of this order, the latter shall control.

 

 ,

 
