Executive Order  —Assigning Emergency Preparedness Functions to:   of  ;  ;  ;  ;   of  ;  ;  ; and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , including authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat.  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Scope.

  of  ,  ,  ,  ,   of  ,  ,   and   (hereinafter referred to collectively as   of agencies) shall prepare national emergency plans and develop preparedness programs covering functions assigned to them in this order. These plans and programs shall be designed to develop a state of readiness with respect to all conditions of national emergency, including attack upon  .

 . 2.

Financial Plans and  .

  of  ,  ,  , and   of  , shall participate with  ,  , and other agencies in the formulation of emergency financial and stabilization policies. The Heads of such agencies shall, as appropriate, develop emergency plans, programs, and regulations, in consonance with national emergency financial and stabilization plans and policies, to cope with potential economic effects of mobilization or an attack, including, but not limited to, the following:

(a)

Money and credit.

Provision, restriction, or regulation of money and credit in accordance with the needs of the economy, including the acquisition, decentralization, and distribution of emergency supplies of currency; the collection of cash items and non-cash items; and the conduct of fiscal agency and foreign operations.

(b)

Financial institutions.

Provision for the continued or resumed operation of banking, savings and loan, and other financial institutions, including measures for the recreation of evidence of assets or liabilities destroyed or inaccessible.

(c)

Liquidity.

Provision of necessary liquidity to financial institutions including those destroyed or damaged.

(d)

Cash withdrawals and credit transfers.

Regulation of the distribution and withdrawal of currency and the transfer of credits including deposit and share account balances.

(e) Insurance.

Provision for the assumption and discharge of liability pertaining to insured deposits and insured savings accounts or withdrawable shares in financial institutions destroyed or made insolvent.

 . 3.

Sharing of War Losses.

Heads of agencies shall, as appropriate, participate with   and   in the development of policies, plans, and procedures for sharing war losses.

 . 4.

 .

In addition to its concern with other programs outlined herein, the   shall collaborate with the Secretary of the   in the development of emergency financial control plans, programs, procedures, and regulations for:

(a)

Stock trading.

Temporary closure of security, suspension of redemption rights and freezing of stock and bond prices, if required in the interest of maintaining economic controls.

(b)

Modified trading.

Development of plans designed to re-establish and maintain a stable and orderly market for securities when the situation permits under emergency conditions.

(c)

Protection of securities.

Provision of a national records system which will make it possible to establish current ownership of securities in the event major trading centers and depositories are destroyed.

(d)

Flow of capital.

The control of the formation and flow of private capital as it relates to new securities offerings or expansion of prior offerings for the purpose of establishing or re-establishing industries in relation to the nation's needs in or following a national emergency.

(e)

Flight of capital.

The prevention of the flight of capital outside this country and the impounding of securities in the hands of enemy aliens.

 . 5.

 .

Under foreign policy guidance of the Secretary of  ,   shall develop plans for the utilization of the resources of the   in expansion of productive capacity abroad for essential materials, foreign barter arrangements, acquisition of emergency imports, or in any other manner designed to strengthen the relative position of the   and its allies, or to assist neutral nations, and, under guidance of the Secretary of the  , develop plans for the utilization of the  's resources in support of the domestic economy and survival of the nation.

 . 6.

Small Business Administration.

The Administrator of   shall:

(a)

Prime contract authority.

  plans to administer a program for the acquisition of prime contracts by the   and, in turn, for negotiating or otherwise letting of subcontracts to capable small business concerns in an emergency.

(b)

Resource information.

Provide data on facilities inventories and potential production capacity of small business concerns to all interested agencies.

(c)

Procurement.

  plans to determine jointly with Federal procurement agencies, as appropriate, which defense contracts are to go to small business concerns and to certify to the productive and financial ability of small concerns to perform specific contracts, as required.

(d)

Loans for plant modernization.

  plans for providing emergency assistance to essential individual industrial establishments through direct loans or participation loans for the financing of production facilities and equipment.

(e)

Resource pools.

  plans for encouraging and approving small business defense production and research and development pools.

(f)

Financial assistance.

  plans to make loans, directly or in participation with private lending institutions, to small business concerns and to groups or pools of such concerns, to small business investment companies, and to state and local development companies to provide them with funds for lending to small business concerns, for defense and essential civilian purposes.

 . 7.

 .

The Administrator of   shall:

(a)

Health functions.

Assist  , and   in the fulfillment of that  's responsibilities and participate with it in the development of plans and guidance to utilize to the maximum extent the existing health resources of  .

(b)

  benefits.

(1) Develop plans for the continuation or restoration of benefits to veterans of previous wars as soon as possible after a direct attack upon   and prepare operating plans and programs designed to recognize and care for new veterans.

(2) Develop emergency measures for the conduct of compensation, pension, rehabilitation, and insurance payments consistent with overall Federal plans for the continuation of Federal benefit payments after an enemy attack..

(3) Develop plans and procedures for the emergency conduct of insurance and loan guaranty functions in accordance with indirect stabilization policies and controls designed to deal with various conditions of attack.

 . 8.

Research.

Within the framework of Federal research objectives, Heads of agencies shall supervise, conduct, or recommend research directly concerned with carrying out emergency preparedness responsibilities, designate representatives for necessary ad hoc or task force groups, and provide advice and assistance to other agencies in planning for research in areas involving their agency's interest.

 . 9.

Cooperation with Department of Defense.

In consonance with national civil defense plans, programs, and operations of  .  ,   of agencies shall, as appropriate:

(a)

Facilities protection.

Provide facilities protection guidance material adapted to the needs of the facilities and services concerned and promote a national program to stimulate disaster preparedness and control in order to minimize the effects of overt or covert attack on facilities under their jurisdiction or influence. Guidance shall include, but not be limited to, organization and training of facility employees, personnel shelter, evacuation records protection continuity of management, emergency repair, deconcentration or dispersal of facilities, and mutual aid associations for an emergency.

(b)

Damage assessment.

Maintain a capability to assess the effects of attack on facilities under their jurisdiction and to provide data and assistance to  .

 . 10.

Functional Guidance.

Heads of agencies, in carrying out the functions assigned in this order, shall be guided by the following:

(a) Interagency cooperation.

Heads of agencies shall enlist the cooperation of appropriate   authorities and shall coordinate the performance of their emergency preparedness functions with departments and agencies having primary or supporting functions   thereto.

(b)

Presidential coordination.

The Director of   shall advise and assist the President in determining policy for the performance of functions under this order and in coordinating the performance of such functions with the total national preparedness program.

(c)

Emergency planning.

Emergency plans and programs and emergency organization structure required thereby, shall be developed as an integral part of the continuing activities of each agency on the basis that it will have the responsibility for carrying out such programs during an emergency. Heads of agencies shall be prepared to implement all appropriate plans developed under this order. Modifications and temporary organizational changes, based on emergency conditions, will be in accordance with policy determinations by the President.

  11.

Emergency Actions.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as conferring authority under Title III of   of  , as amended, or otherwise, to put into effect any emergency plan, procedure, policy, program, or course of action prepared or developed pursuant to this order. Such authority is reserved to the President.

 . 12.

Resources Evaluation.

Heads of agencies shall provide for appropriate participation in the national resources evaluation program administered by  .

 . 13.

Redelegation.

Heads of agencies are hereby authorized to redelegate within their agencies the functions hereinabove assigned to them.

 . 14.

Prior Actions.

To the extent of any inconsistency between the provisions of any prior order and the provisions of this order, the latter shall control. Emergency Preparedness Order No. 10 (heretofore issued by the Director of  ) (26   835), and Defense Mobilization Orders No. 1-20 dated   (21 F.R.  ), No. 1-22 dated   (21 F.R. 2043), and 1-24 dated   (21 F.R. 5057) (heretofore issued by the Director of  ) are hereby superseded and revoked.

 

 ,

 
