Executive Order  —Assigning Emergency Preparedness Functions to:   of  ;  ;  ;  ; The Director of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , including authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat.  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Scope.

  of  ,  ,  ,  , and the Director of   (hereinafter referred to collectively as   of agencies) shall prepare national emergency plans and develop preparedness programs covering functions assigned. to them in this order. These plans and programs shall be designed to develop a state of readiness with respect to all conditions of national emergency, including attack upon  .

 . 2.

 .

  of   (hereinafter referred to as  ) shall:

(a)

Electric power.

Assist   in the development of plans for the integration of the   power system into national emergency programs and prepare plans for the emergency management, operation, and maintenance of the system and for its essential expansion.

(b)

Waterways.

Assist   in the development of plans for .integration and control of inland waterway transportation systems and, m cooperation with  , prepare plans for the management, operation, and maintenance of the river control system in the Tennessee River and certain of its tributaries for navigation during an emergency.

(c)

Flood control.

  plans and maintain its river control operations for the prevention or control of floods caused by natural phenomena or overt and covert attack affecting the Tennessee River System and, in so doing, collaborate with   with respect to the control of water in the lower   and  .

(d)

Health and sanitary water supplies.

Assist  , and   in the development of plans and programs covering. health service, civilian health manpower, and health resources in the   area and prepare plans for the management, operation, and maintenance of the Tennessee River system consistent with the needs for sanitary public water supplies, waste disposal, and vector control.

(e)

Coordination of Water use.

  plans for determining or proposing priorities for the use of water by   in the event of conflicting claims arising from the functions listed above.

(f)

Fertilizer.

  in the development of plans for the distribution and claimancy of fertilizer; work with   in the development of   production quotas and any essential expansion of production facilities and prepare plans for the management, operation, and maintenance of its facilities for the manufacture of nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizers.

(g)

Munitions production.

Perform chemical research in munitions as requested by  , maintain standby munitions production facilities, and develop plans for converting and utilizing fertilizer facilities as required in support of   munitions program.

(h)

Land management.

  plans for the maintenance, management, and utilization of  -controlled lands in the interests of an emergency economy.

(i)

Radiological monitoring.

Develop and maintain capability to perform radiological fallout monitoring for the purpose of protecting   personnel and exchanging such information with appropriate national, regional, state, and local civil defense organizations.

(j)

Food and forestry.

Assist   in the development of plans for the harvesting and processing of fish and game, and   in the development of plans for the production and processing of forest products.

(k)

Coordination with  .

  plans and agreements with  , consistent with Federal programs for appropriate integration of   and   plans for the use of available   resources.

 . 3.

 .

  shall:

(a)

Manpower functions.

Within the framework of the overall manpower plans and programs of  , assist in the mobilization of civilian manpower in an emergency by developing plans for the recruitment and referral of that segment of the  's manpower resources subject to  .

(b)

Benefit payments.

Assist  , and   and  , as appropriate, by developing plans for administering, under emergency conditions, the essential aspects of the provision of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act and  .

 . 4.

 .

The Administrator of   shall:

(a)

Research and development.

  and utilize the scientific and technological capability of  , consistent with over-all requirements, to meet priority needs of the programs of   in an emergency. This will include the direction and conduct of essential research and development activities relating to (1) aircraft, spacecraft, and launch vehicles, (2) associated instrumentation, guidance, control and pay-load, propulsion and communications systems, (3) scientific phenomena affecting both manned and unmanned space flights, (4) the life sciences (biology, medicine, and psychology) as they apply to aeronautics and space, and (5) atmospheric and geophysical sciences.

(b)

Military support.

Provide direct assistance as requested by   and other agencies in support of the military effort. This may include (1) undertaking urgent projects to develop superior aircraft, spacecraft, launch vehicles, and weapons systems, (2) developing methods to counter novel or revolutionary enemy weapons systems, (3) providing technical advice and assistance on matters involving air and space activities, and (4) furnishing personnel and facilities to assist in emergency repairs of equipment deficiencies and for other essential purposes.

 . 5.

 .

  shall assist   in connection with emergency preparedness functions with respect, to electric power and natural gas as specified in an agreement between the Secretary of the   and the Chairman of  .

 . 6.

National Science Foundation.

The Director of   shall:

(a)

Manpower functions.

Assist   in sustaining readiness for the mobilization of civilian manpower by: (1) maintaining the  's register of scientific and technical personnel in such form and at such locations as will assure maximum usefulness in an emergency; (2) being prepared for rapid expansion of the  's current operation as a central clearing house for information covering all scientific and technical personnel in   and its possessions; and (3) developing, in consultation with  ,  ,  , and  , plans and procedures to assure the most effective distribution and utilization of the  's scientific and engineering manpower in an emergency.

(b)

Special functions.

(1) Provide leadership in developing, with the assistance of   agencies and appropriate non-governmental organizations, the ability to mobilize scientists, in consonance with over-all civilian manpower mobilization programs, to perform or assist in performance of special tasks, including the identification of and defense against unconventional warfare; (2) advance the national radiological defense capability by including, in consultation with appropriate agencies, pertinent scientific information and radiological defense techniques in the  's scientific institute program for science, mathematics, and engineering teachers; (3) assemble data on the location and character of major scientific research facilities, including non-governmental as well as government facilities, and their normal inventories of types of equipment and instruments which would be useful in identification and analysis of hazards to human life ]n the aftermath of enemy attack; and (4) prepare to carry on necessary programs for basic research and for training of scientific manpower.

 . 7.

Cooperation with Department of Defense.

In consonance with national civil defense plans, programs, and operations of  .  ,   of agencies shall, as appropriate:

(a)

Facilities protection.

Provide facilities protection guidance material adapted to the needs of the facilities and services concerned and promote a national program to stimulate disaster preparedness and control in order to minimize the effects of overt or covert attack on facilities under their jurisdiction. Guidance shall include, but not be limited to, organization and training of facility employees, personnel shelter, evacuation, records protection, continuity of management, emergency repair, deconcentration or dispersal of facilities, and mutual aid associations for an emergency.

(b)

Damage assessment.

Maintain a capability to assess the effects of an attack on facilities under their jurisdiction and to provide data and assistance to the .Department of   and other agencies, as appropriate.

 . 8.

Research.

Within the framework of Federal research objectives, Heads of agencies shall supervise or conduct research in areas directly concerned with carrying out emergency preparedness responsibilities, designate representatives for necessary ad hoc or task force groups, and provide advice and assistance to other agencies in planning for research in areas involving each agency's interest.

 . 9.

Resources Evaluation.

Each agency shall provide for appropriate participation in the national resources evaluation program administered by  .

 . 10.

Claimancy.

Heads of agencies shall prepare plans to claim materials, manpower, equipment, supplies, and services needed in support of assigned responsibilities and other essential functions of the agencies, before or through appropriate agencies, and shall work with such agencies in developing programs to insure availability of such resources in an emergency.

 . 11.

Functional Guidance.

Heads of agencies, in carrying out the functions assigned in this order, shall be guided by the following:

(a)

Interagency cooperation.

Heads of agencies shall coordinate the performance of their emergency preparedness functions with departments and agencies having primary or supporting functions related thereto.

(b)

Presidential coordination.

The Director of   shall advise and assist the President in determining policy for the performance of functions under this order and in coordinating the performance of such functions with the total national preparedness program.

(c)

Emergency planning.

Emergency plans and programs and emergency organization structure required thereby, shall be developed as an integral part of the continuing activities of each agency on the basis that it will have the responsibility for carrying out such programs during an emergency. Heads of agencies shall be prepared to implement all appropriate plans developed under this order. Modifications and temporary organizational changes, based on emergency conditions, will be in accordance with policy determinations by the President.

 . 12.

Emergency Actions.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as conferring authority under Title III of   of  , as amended, or otherwise, to put into effect any emergency plan, procedure, policy, program, or course of action prepared or developed pursuant to this order. Such authority is reserved to the President.

 . 13.

Redelegation.

Heads of agencies are hereby authorized to redelegate within their agencies the functions hereinabove assigned to them.

 . 14.

Prior Actions.

To the extent of any inconsistency between the provisions of any prior order and the provisions of this order, the latter shall control. Emergency Preparedness Orders No. 11,  , and   (heretofore issued by the Director,  ) (26   835-838), are hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 
