Executive Order  —Assigning Emergency Preparedness Functions to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , including authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat.  ), and by section 606 of the Communications Act of  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 606), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Scope.

  (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) shall, subject to the policy guidance of the Director of  , prepare national emergency plans and develop preparedness programs covering provisions of service by common carriers, broadcasting facilities, and the safety and special radio services; assignment of radio frequencies to   licensees; and the protection, reduction of vulnerability, maintenance, and restoration of facilities operated by its licensees in an emergency. These plans and programs shall be designed to develop a state of readiness in these areas with respect to all conditions of national emergency, including attack upon  , and will take into account the possibility of Government preference or priority with common carriers or of exclusive Government use or control of communications services or facilities, when authorized by law.

 . 2.

Definitions.

As used in this order:

(a) "Common carrier" means any person subject to   regulation engaged in providing, for use by the public, for hire, interstate or foreign communication facilities or services by wire or radio; but a person engaged in radio broadcasting shall not, insofar as such person is so engaged, be deemed a common carrier.

(b) "Broadcasting facilities" means those stations licensed by the   for the dissemination of radio communications intended to be received by the public, directly or by the intermediary of relay stations.

(c) "Safety and special radio services" includes those non-broad-cast and non-common carrier services which are licensed by the   under the generic designation "safety and special radio services" pursuant to the Commission's Rules and Regulations.

  3.

Functions.

The   shall develop plans and procedures, in consonance with national telecommunications plans and policies, covering:

(a)

Common carrier service.

(1) Extension, discontinuance, or reduction of common carrier facilities or services, and issuance of appropriate authorizations for such facilities, services and personnel in an emergency; and control of all rates, charges, practices, classifications, and regulations for service to   and   users during an emergency, in consonance with national economic stabilization policies.

(2) Development and administration of priority systems for public correspondence and for the use and resumption of leased inter-city private line service in an emergency.

(3) Use of common carrier facilities and services to overseas points to meet vital needs in an emergency.

(b)

Broadcasting service.

Construction activation, or deactivation of broadcasting facilities and services, the continuation or suspension of broadcasting services and facilities, and issuance of appropriate authorizations for such facilities, services, and personnel in an emergency.

(c)

Safety and special radio services.

Authorization, operation and use of safety and special radio services, facilities and personnel in the national interest in an emergency.

(d)

Radio frequency assignment.

Assignment. of radio frequencies to, and their use by,   licensees in an emergency.

(e)

  data.

Provision of assistance and data with respect to facilities operated by   licensees for national resource evaluation purposes of  .

(f)

Electromagnetic radiation.

Control of radio stations in emergency, except for those belonging to, or operated by, any department or agency of  .

(g)

Investigation and enforcement.

Investigation of violations of pertinent law and regulations in an emergency and development of procedures designated to initiate, recommend, or otherwise bring about appropriate enforcement actions required in the interest of national security.

(h)

Financial aid.

Provision of financial, credit, or other assistance to common carriers and   licensees who might need such assistance in various conditions of mobilization, particularly those resulting from attack..

(i)

Conservation, salvage and rehabilitation.

Stimulation of the development, by common carriers and by licensees, of standby plans for the conservation and salvage of supplies and equipment and the rehabilitation, restoration, or replacement of essential communication facilities after an attack.

(j)

Claimancy.

Preparation to claim materials, manpower, equipment, supplies, and services needed in support of the common carriers and   licensees from the appropriate resource agencies, and work with such agencies in developing programs to insure availability of such resources in an emergency.

  4.

Cooperation with Department of Defense.

In consonance with national civil defense plans, programs, and operations of  .  , the   shall:

(a)

Facilities protection.

Provide advice and guidance to achieve such industry protection as is necessary to maintain the integrity of the facilities and services provided by common carriers and radio station licensees, and promote a national program to stimulate disaster preparedness and damage control. The guidance developed by the   shall include, but not, be limited to, organizing and training facility employees, personnel shelter, evacuation and relocation plans, records protection, continuity of management, security, emergency repair and recovery of facilities, deconcentration and dispersal of facilities, and mutual aid associations for emergency.

(b)

Damage assessment.

Maintain a capability to assess the effects of attack on communication facilities and services subject to   regulation which are essential in a national emergency and to provide data to  .

 . 5.

Research.

  or conduct research in areas directly concerned with the  's emergency preparedness responsibilities.

 . 6.

Functional Guidance.

The  , in carrying out the functions assigned in this order, shall be guided by the following:

(a)

Interagency cooperation.

The   shall assume the initiative in developing plans for the performance of the emergency functions outlined above, consulting with other departments and agencies as appropriate. Such plans shall be in consonance with plans for the mobilization of the nation's telecommunications resources developed pursuant to Executive Order No.  , Executive Order No.   and Executive Order No.  .

(b)

Presidential coordination.

The Director of   shall advise and assist the President in determining policy for the performance of functions under this order and in coordinating the performance of such functions with the total national preparedness program.

(c)

Emergency planning.

Emergency plans and programs, and emergency organization structure required thereby, shall be developed as an integral part of the continuing activities of the   on the basis that it will have the responsibility for carrying out such programs during an emergency. The   shall be prepared to implement all appropriate plans developed under this order. Modifications and temporary organizational changes, based on emergency conditions, will be in accordance with policy determinations by the President.

 . 7.

Emergency Actions.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as conferring authority under Title III of   of  , as amended, or otherwise, to put into effect any emergency plan, procedure, policy, program, or course of action prepared or developed pursuant to this order.

  8.

Redelegation.

The   is hereby authorized to reassign, within the   and its staff, the functions herein-above assigned to it.

 . 9.

Prior Actions.

Nothing in this order shall derogate from the provisions of Executive Order No.  , Executive Order No.   or Executive Order No.  . Any order with respect to telecommunications, issued pursuant to authority conferred by those orders or orders which they revised or superseded, shall, except as it is inconsistent herewith, continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority. To the extent that there may be any inconsistency between the provisions of any other prior Executive order and the provisions of this order, this order shall control.

 

 ,

 
