Executive Order 11086—Amendment of Executive Order No. 10587 Relating to  ) of the Trading With the Enemy Act
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 1

et seq.

), and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code (65 Stat. 713), and as President of  , it is ordered that sections 1, 2 and 3 of Executive Order No.   (20  ) are amended to read as follows:

"SECTION 1. The   Restitution Successor Organization, a charitable membership organization incorporated under the laws of  , is hereby designated as successor in interest to deceased persons in accordance with and for the purposes of subsection (h) of section 32 of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as added by the Act of   (68 Stat. 767), and amended by section 204(a) of Public Law 87-846, approved   (  Stat.  ).

" . 2. Exclusive of the designation of the   Restitution Successor Organization under section 1 of this   and the exercise of jurisdiction over the claims referred to in section 3, the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission is hereby delegated and shall carry out the functions provided for in subsection (h) of section 32 of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, including the designation or refusal of designation of other organizations under the first sentence of that subsection, the payment of $500,000 out of the War Claims Fund to the designated organization or organizations and all other powers, duties, authority and discretion vested in or conferred upon the President.

" . 3. Jurisdiction over the claims filed by the   Restitution Successor Organization with the Attorney General under subsection (h) of section 32 of the Trading with the Enemy Act prior to the amendment thereof by section 204(a) of Public Law 87-846 shall remain with the Attorney General pending the discharge of such claims by that organization's acceptance of payment pursuant to subsection (h) , as amended, or other discharge of such claims pursuant to law."

 

 ,

 
