Executive Order  —Reestablishing  
 
 

WHEREAS section 33 (c) of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. 784), declared it to be the purpose of the   to reduce the number of accidents and injuries among Government officers and employees, encourage safe practices, eliminate work hazards and health risks, and reduce compensable injuries; and

WHEREAS section 35 of that Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 785), further disclosed the interest of the   in the promotion of safety in Federal agencies and establishments; and

WHEREAS  , as amended and as modified by Reorganization Plan No. 19 of   (hereinafter referred to as the Act), directs the heads of Government departments and agencies to develop, support, and foster organized safety promotion, and to keep such records of injuries and accidents to persons covered by the Act, and to make such statistical and other reports upon such forms as the Secretary of   may prescribe; and

WHEREAS the preponderance of accidents involving employees in the   service occur in field operations, the heads of executive departments and agencies, and through them, their supervisory staffs, including regional and field staffs, must exert leadership in the establishment of a sound accident prevention program at both the national and regional level; and

WHEREAS representatives of Federal employees should share a similar concern for the establishment of such programs; and

WHEREAS the President is authorized by the Act to establish by Executive order a safety council composed of representatives of Government departments and agencies to serve as an advisory body to the Secretary of   in furtherance of the safety program carried out by the Secretary pursuant to section 33 of the Act and to undertake such other measures as he deems proper to prevent injuries and accidents to persons covered by the Act:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 33(c) of the Act and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Establishment of Council.

There is hereby established in  , hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall be composed of a Chairman, to be designated by the Secretary of  , and one qualified representative of each of the several executive departments and agencies and of the municipal government of   (hereinafter referred to as members). The heads of the departments and agencies and   of   shall designate the members representing them, respectively, and may also designate suitable alternate members. The Secretary of   may, as he deems appropriate, appoint representatives of national or international unions, having Federal employees as members, to serve as consultants to the various committees established by the  . The Chairman, members, alternate members, and consultants shall serve, as such, without compensation from  .

 . 2.

Purpose and functions of  .

The   shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of   in matters relating to the safety of civilian employees of the Federal government and the municipal government of   and the furtherance of the safety program carried out by the Secretary pursuant to section 33 of the Act. It shall advise the Secretary of   with respect to the development and maintenance of adequate and effective safety organizations and programs in the several departments and agencies of the Federal government and the municipal government of   and with respect to criteria, standards, and procedures designed to eliminate work hazards and health risks and to prevent injuries and accidents in Federal employment.

 . 3.

Council affiliates, committees, and officers.

The   shall include as an integral part of its organizational structure and operations such affiliates, hereafter established by the   or now existing, in such manner and to such extent as it deems necessary properly and efficiently to perform its functions. The   shall establish such committees, and may choose such officers (other than its chairman), as it finds necessary for carrying out its functions.

 . 4.

Regulations.

The Secretary of   shall prescribe appropriate regulations governing the activities and functions of the  .

 . 5.

Administrative and budgetary arrangements.

The Secretary of   shall make available necessary office space and furnish the   necessary equipment, supplies, and staff services.

 . 6.

Continuity.

  established by this order shall be deemed to constitute a continuation of   heretofore existing under the provisions of Executive Order No. 10194 of  .

 . 7.

Revocation.

Executive Order No. 10194 of  , is hereby superseded.

 

 ,

 
