Executive Order  —Preparation, Presentation, Filing, and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   (49 Stat. 500, as amended; 44 U.S.C. 301

et seq.),

and as President of  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the preparation, presentation, filing, and publication of Executive orders and proclamations:

SECTION 1.

Form.

Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be prepared in accordance with the following requirements:

(a) The order or proclamation shall be given a suitable title.

(b) The order or proclamation shall contain a citation of the authority under which it is issued.

(c) Punctuation, capitalization, spelling, and other matters of style shall, in general, conform to the most recent edition of the Style Manual of the United States Government Printing Office.

(d) The spelling of geographic names shall conform to the decisions of  , established by Section 2 of the Act of July 25, 1947, 61 Stat. 456 (43 U.S.C. 364a).

(e) Descriptions of tracts of land shall conform, so far as practicable, to the most recent edition of  ," prepared by  .

(f) Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be typewritten on paper approximately 8 x 13 inches, shall have a left-hand margin of approximately 11/2 inches and a right-hand margin of approximately 1 inch, and shall be double-spaced, except that quotations, tabulations, and descriptions of land may be single-spaced.

 . 2.

Routing and approval of drafts.

(a) A proposed Executive order or proclamation shall first be submitted, with seven copies thereof, to the Director of  , together with a letter, signed by the head or other properly authorized officer of the originating Federal agency, explaining the nature, purpose, background, and effect of the proposed   order or proclamation and its relationship, if any, to pertinent laws and other Executive orders or proclamations.

(b) If the Director of   approves the proposed   order or proclamation, he shall transmit it to the Attorney General for his consideration as to both form and legality.

(c) If the Attorney General approves the proposed   order or proclamation, he shall transmit it to the Director of  ,  ,  :

Provided,

that in cases involving sufficient urgency the Attorney General may transmit it directly to the President; and

provided further,

that the authority vested in the Attorney General by this section may be delegated by him, in whole or in part, to the Deputy Attorney General,  , or to such Assistant Attorney General as he may designate.

(d) After determining that the proposed   order or proclamation conforms to the requirements of Section 1 of this order and is free from typographical or clerical error, the Director of   shall transmit it and three copies thereof to the President.

(e) If the proposed   order or proclamation is disapproved by the Director of   or by the Attorney General, it shall not thereafter be presented to the President unless it is accompanied by a statement of the reasons for such disapproval.

 . 3.

Routing and certification of originals and copies.

(a) If the order or proclamation as signed by the President, the original and two copies thereof shall be forwarded to the Director of   for publication in  .

Provided,

that prior to such forwarding the Seal of   shall be affixed to the originals of proclamations to the extent required by statute or Executive order.

(b)   shall cause to be placed upon the copies of all Executive orders and proclamations forwarded as provided in subsection (a) of this section the following notation, to be signed by the Director or by some person authorized by him to sign such notation: "Certified to be a true copy of the original."

 . 4.

Proclamations calling for the observance of special days or events.

Except as may be otherwise provided by law, responsibility for the preparation and presentation of proposed proclamations calling for the observance of special days, or other periods of time, or events shall be assigned by the Director of   to such agencies as he may consider appropriate. Such proposed proclamations shall be submitted to the Director at least sixty days before the date of the specified observance.

 . 5.

Proclamations of treaties excluded.

Consonant with the provisions of Section 12 of the Federal Register Act (49 Stat. 503; 44 U.S.C. 312), nothing in this order shall be construed to apply to treaties, conventions, protocols, or other international agreements, or proclamations thereof by the President.

 . 6.

Definition.

The term "Presidential proclamations and Executive orders," as used in Section 5(a) of   (44 U.S.C. 305 (a)), shall, except as the President or his representative may hereafter otherwise direct, be deemed to include such attachments thereto as are referred to in the respective proclamations or orders.

 . 7.

Prior order.

Upon its publication in  , this order shall supersede Executive  .   of October 9, 1948.

The regulations prescribed by this order shall be codified under Title 1 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

 

 ,

 
