Executive Order  —Establishing the President's   on the Arts
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Establishment of the  .

(a) There is hereby established the President's   on the   (hereinafter referred to as the   ).

(b) The   shall be composed of the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  ,  , the Chairman of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  ,  , the President's Special Consultant on the  , and no more than thirty members appointed by the President from among persons in private life who are widely recognized for their role in the arts, including practicing artists, civic and cultural leaders, and others professionally engaged in the arts. Members from private life shall serve for terms of  , except that the terms of members initially appointed shall be for   as specified by the President. The Chairman shall also invite   to be a member of the  .

(c) The President shall designate the Chairman of the  .

(d) Federal members of the   shall receive no compensation for such service. Members appointed from private life shall receive compensation for   engaged on business of the   and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

(e) The   shall meet at the call of the Chairman.

 . 2.

Functions and Responsibilities of the  .

(a) The   shall:

(1) Survey and assess the needs and prospects of the various arts throughout  , the means used to encourage creative activity and to afford opportunity for participation in and appreciation and enjoyment of the arts, and the relative roles of governmental and non-governmental institutions in relation to the arts;

(2) Identify existing Federal legislation, policies and programs which directly or indirectly affect the arts, and evaluate their current and potential effects on the development of cultural opportunities and institutions and, except to the extent that responsibility may be vested by statute in other Federal advisory bodies, the character and quality of Federal activities in the field of the arts;

(3) Submit reports and recommendations to the President on its own initiative or at the request of the President or the President's Special Consultant on the  ;

(4) Encourage and facilitate the most effective use of resources available for support and development of the arts by advising and consulting with   and local agencies, civic and community organizations, educational institutions, foundations, and other interested organizations and institutions; and

(5) Promote and stimulate public understanding and recognition of the importance of the arts and cultural institutions to our national welfare and our international interests.

(b) In carrying out its functions the   shall, insofar as practicable, provide interested Government and non-governmental agencies and organizations and private citizens, including practicing artists and others professionally engaged in the arts, an opportunity to present their views and recommendations to the   for its consideration.

(c) For the purposes of this section the arts are defined to include music, drama, opera, dance, painting, sculpture, literature, architecture and such allied fields as urban and landscape design, photography, graphic arts, crafts, motion pictures, radio and television.

  3.

 .

(a) As deemed necessary to facilitate the work of the  , the Chairman may request the head of any executive department or agency whose activities have significant implications for the arts to designate a liaison officer to consult with and advise the   on matters of common concern.

(b) Upon request of the Chairman each executive department and agency is authorized and directed, consistent with law, to furnish the   available information which the   may require in the performance of its functions.

(c) Each Federal agency represented on the   shall furnish such necessary assistance to the   as may be authorized by section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).

(d)   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the   on a reimbursable basis.

 

 ,

 
