Executive Order 11111—Providing Assistance for the Removal of Obstructions of Justice and Suppression of Unlawful Combinations Within  
 

WHEREAS on  , I issued Proclamation No.  , pursuant in part to the provisions of section 334 of Title 10, United States Code; and

WHEREAS the commands contained in that Proclamation have not been obeyed, and the unlawful obstructions of justice and combinations referred to therein continue:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, particularly sections 332, 333 and 334 thereof, and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of   is authorized and directed to take all appropriate steps to remove obstructions of justice in  , to enforce the laws of   within that  , including the orders of   District Court for the Northern District of   referred to in the said Proclamation, and to suppress unlawful assemblies, combinations, conspiracies and domestic violence which oppose or obstruct the execution of the laws of   or impede the course of justice under those laws within that  .

 . 2. In furtherance of the authorization and direction contained in section 1 hereof, the Secretary of   is authorized to use such of   as he may deem necessary.

 . 3. I hereby authorize and direct the Secretary of   to call into the active military service of  , as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order, any or all of the units of   and of   of   to serve in the active military service of   for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders. In carrying out the provisions of section 1, the Secretary of   is authorized to use the units, and members thereof, called into the active military service of   pursuant to this section.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to delegate to the Secretary of the   or the Secretary of  , or both, any of the authority conferred upon him by this order.

 

 ,

 
