Executive Order 11100—Establishing  
 

WHEREAS less than sixty-five percent of   population of voting age cast ballots for Presidential electors in  ; and

WHEREAS popular participation in   through elections is essential to a democratic form of Government; and

WHEREAS the causes of nonvoting are not fully understood and more effective corrective action will be possible on the basis of a better understanding of the causes of the failure of many citizens to register and vote:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a). There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of not more than eleven members, each of whom shall be appointed by the President. One of the members of the   shall be designated by the President as the Chairman thereof.

 . 2. The   shall:

(a) Study the reasons for the failure of many citizens to register and vote in elections for selection of Members of  , the President, and Vice President including:

(1) Laws which restrict registration and voting on the basis of residence, economic status, or other reasons,

(2) Procedures for registration of voters,

(3) Absentee voting provisions, and

(4) Causes of nonvoting by persons who are otherwise qualified to vote.

(b) Prepare and present to the President recommendations for increasing citizen participation in Government through the exercise of the right to vote.

 . 3. The   shall not consider matters placed under the jurisdiction of   by the Civil Rights Act of   (71 Stat. 634), as amended.

 . 4. All who may be in a position to do so are requested to furnish the   information pertinent to its work and otherwise to facilitate the  's work.

 . 5. Each member of the   shall receive compensation of $75 for   such member is engaged upon the work of the  , except that any member who then receives other compensation from   shall serve as such member without compensation under this order. The   is authorized to appoint such personnel as may be necessary to assist the   in connection with the performance of its functions without regard to the civil service and classification laws, but no such personnel shall receive compensation at a rate in excess of $17,500 per annum. The   is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 15 of the Act of   (5 U.S.C.  ), at rates not in excess of $75 per diem for individuals.

 . 6. The compensation of the members and personnel of the  , lawful allowances therefor, and any other necessary expenses arising in connection with the work of the   shall be paid from the appropriation appearing under the heading "Special Projects" in title III of the  -Post Office  ,  , 76 Stat. 310, and such appropriation as may be provided for the same purposes for  . Such payments shall be made without regard to the provisions of Section 3681 of the Revised Statutes and Section 9 of the Act of  , 35 Stat.   (31 U.S.C. 672 and 673).

 . 7.   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the   on a reimbursable basis.

 . 8. The   in its discretion may transmit to the President such preliminary or interim report or reports as it may deem appropriate. It shall transmit its principal study and recommendations to the President not   November 30,  , together with such supporting materials as it deems appropriate. The   shall terminate not   after the submission of its principal report to the President.

 

 ,

 
