Executive Order  —  and a Council Relating to the Status of Women
 
 

The President's Commission on  , established by Executive Order No.   of  , has in fulfillment of its responsibilities, submitted a report concerning the steps that should be taken to further the effort to achieve the full participation of women in   life.

Enhancement of the quality of   life, as envisioned by the  's report, can be accomplished only through concerted action by both public and private groups, through coordinated action within  , and through action by  , communities, educational institutions, voluntary organizations, employers, unions, and individual citizens.

In order to assure effective and continuing leadership in advancing the status of women, it is deemed appropriate to establish an interdepartmental committee and a citizens' advisory council on the status of women.

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

PART I--INTERDEPARTMENTAL C0MMITTEE ON THE STATUS OF WOMEN

SECTION 101. (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  "), which shall be composed of the Secretary of  , who shall be the Chairman of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , and the Chairman of  , all ex officio. The Director of   shall serve as Executive Vice-Chairman of the  , and shall be an ex officio member thereof.

(b) When any matter especially related to the area of responsibility of any   or agency, the head of which is not a member of the  , is to be considered by the  , the Chairman of the   shall invite the head of such department or agency to participate in the deliberations of the   with respect to such matter and to be a temporary member of the   during such deliberations.

 . 102.  (1) Maintain a continuing review and evaluation of the progress of Federal departments and agencies m advancing the status of women.

(2) Serve as a clearing house for information as to the activities being directed toward, and the progress being made in, improving conditions of special interest to women.

(3) Stimulate cooperation and the sharing of data, views, and information among   agencies,   and local governments, State commissions on the status of women, and public and private organizations having responsibilities and interests in areas of special concern to women.

(4) Encourage research on factors affecting the status of women in the areas of education, home and community activities, employment, social insurance, taxes, civil and political rights, labor legislation, and related matters.

(5) Exchange information with the   on  , established by Part II of this order, on progress toward advancing the status of women and on new developments requiring consideration by the   and the  .

 . 103.   the   shall transmit to the President a consolidated report concerning the activities of the   and the Citizens' Advisory Council.

PART II--CITIZENS'   . 201. There is hereby established the   on   (hereinafter referred to as  "), which shall be composed of 17 members appointed by the President, one of whom he shall designate to serve as Chairman. The council shall meet at the call of the Chairman of the  , but not less than twice a year. Members of the   shall serve without compensation from  .

 . 202. The Council shall-

(l) Serve as a primary means for suggesting and stimulating action with private institutions, organizations, and individuals working for improvement of conditions of special concern to women.

(2) Review and evaluate progress of organizations in furthering the full participation of women in   life.

(3) Advise and assist the   in the evaluation of total progress made and recommend to the  , as necessary, action to accelerate such progress.

(4) Consider the effect of new developments on methods of advancing the status of women and recommend appropriate action to the  .

PART III--FINANCING AND ADMINISTRATION

 . 301. The departments the heads of which are, under Section 101 (a) of this order, members of the   and   shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with Section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). To the extent practical and not inconsistent with law, (1) all Federal departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   and the   and furnish them such information and assistance as may be necessary for the performance of their functions, and (2) the Secretary of   shall furnish staff, office space, office facilities and supplies and other necessary assistance, facilities, and services for   (including travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence for members of the  ).

 

 ,

 
