Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS a substantial number of families, both farm and non-farm, living in rural areas have relatively low cash incomes and do not share equitably in the economic and social progress of the  , and it is desirable to encourage and assist such families by providing greater opportunity for their participation in the  's production of goods and services and in community, civic, and other affairs; and

WHEREAS  , in cooperation with the several   and local governments and private agencies and individuals, pursues a rural-development program designed to develop the human resources in rural   by a series of concerted actions to identify the needs of low-income rural people and to help them to achieve greater rewards for their contributions to our national progress; and

WHEREAS the meeting of legitimate rural-development needs requires vigorous and sustained Federal effort; and

WHEREAS it is necessary to provide suitable Federal organization for the purpose of promoting the coordination of the efforts of the various departments and agencies in this work:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby created   (hereinafter referred to as  ") which shall consist of the following members, all ex officio: the Secretary of  , who shall be the chairman of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  ,  , and  . The chairman may from time to time invite the participation of officials of other agencies of the executive branch interested in the functions of the  . Each member of the   may designate an officer of his agency to act for him as a member of the   with respect to any matter considered by the  .

 . 2. The   shall provide leadership and uniform policy guidance to the several   departments and agencies responsible for rural-development program functions and related activities so that they may take more effective and concerted actions in carrying out those functions and activities and cooperate more effectively with non-Federal participants, both private and governmental, in the work.

 . 3. In conducting its activities the   shall place particular emphasis on effective public and private cooperation and leadership for rural development at the   and local levels, and to that end, shall provide guidance for the conduct of Federal rural-development program functions and related activities in a manner designed to produce optimum  , local, and private participation and initiative in identifying and meeting local needs.

 . 4. The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of  , jointly and individually, shall institute and maintain appropriate measures for the effective coordination of each of the following: (1) the rural-development program of   and the functions of   under the Area Redevelopment Act (75 Stat.  ), and (2) the activities of the   and the activities of   (75 Stat.  ).

 . 5. Each department and agency responsible for functions and activities that can contribute to the objectives of the rural-development program and related activities shall carry those functions and activities forward in such a manner as to make the fullest possible contribution to the objectives of' rural development.

  6. The departments and agencies represented on the   shall as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating the provisions of this order, furnish assistance to the   in consonance with Section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include the detailing of employees to the  , one of whom may serve as its executive secretary, to perform such functions consistent with the purpose of this order as the   may assign to them.

  7. Nothing in this order shall be deemed to authorize any executive department or any other executive agency established by law to carry out any program which is inconsistent with law.

 . 8. Executive  .   of  , is hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 
