Executive Order  —Assigning Authority With Respect to Ordering Persons and Units in   to Active Duty and With Respect to Extension of Enlistments and Other Periods of Service in  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Joint Resolution of   (Public Law 87-736), and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of  , and, when designated by him for this purpose, any of the Secretaries of the military departments of  , and the Secretary of the   with respect to   are hereby authorized and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President until  , by section 1 of the Act of   (Public Law 87-736) to order, without the consent of the persons concerned, any unit, or any member, of   of an armed force to active duty for not more than twelve consecutive months, provided there are not more than 150,000 members of   thereby on active duty (other than for training) without their consent at any one time.

 . 2. In pursuance of the provisions of section 2 of the said   of  , the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the   with respect to   are hereby authorized to extend enlistments, appointments, periods of active duty, periods of active duty for training, periods of obligated service or other military status in any component of an armed force or in   that expire before  , for not more than twelve months. However, if the enlistment of a member of   who is ordered to active duty under section 1 of this Executive Order would expire after  , but before he has served the entire period for which he was so ordered to active duty, his enlistment may be extended until   of that period.

 . 3. In pursuance of the provisions of section 3 of the said   of  , no member of the armed forces who was involuntarily ordered to active duty or whose period of active duty was extended under the Act of  , Public Law 87-117 (75 Stat. 242), may be involuntarily ordered to active duty under this Executive Order.

 

 ,

 
