1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Citizenship for Children of Military Members and Civil Servants Act
.
2.
Facilitating the automatic acquisition of citizenship for lawful permanent resident children of military and Federal Government personnel residing abroad
(a)
In general
Section 320 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1431
) is amended—
(1)
by amending the section header to read as follows:
Children born outside the United States and lawfully admitted for permanent residence; conditions under which citizenship automatically acquired
;
(2)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
(3)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
(c)
Subsection (a)(3) shall be deemed to be satisfied with respect to a child who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States if the child—
(1)
is residing in the legal and physical custody of a citizen parent who is stationed and residing abroad—
(A)
as an employee of the Government of the United States; or
(B)
in marital union with an employee of the Government of the United States; or
(2)
(A)
is residing in the legal and physical custody of a citizen parent who—
(i)
is stationed and residing abroad as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States; or
(ii)
is authorized to accompany and reside abroad with a member of the Armed Forces of the United States pursuant to the member’s official orders, and is so accompanying and residing abroad with the member in marital union; and
(B)
is authorized to accompany such member and reside abroad with the member pursuant to the member’s official orders, and is so accompanying and residing abroad with the member in the legal and physical custody of the member.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The table of contents for the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
note) is amended by striking the item relating to section 320 and inserting the following:
Sec. 320. Children born outside the United States and lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
conditions under which citizenship automatically acquired.
.
