1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Nursing Home Pandemic Protection Act
.
2.
Requirements for skilled nursing facilities, nursing facilities, and assisted living facilities to manage the outbreak of COVID–19
(a)
Codification of memorandum relating to notification requirements of cases of COVID–19 that are confirmed or under investigation in nursing homes
The memorandum entitled
Upcoming Requirements for Notification of Confirmed COVID–19 (or COVID–19 Persons under Investigation) Among Residents and Staff in Nursing Homes
published by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services on April 19, 2020 shall have the force and effect of law.
(b)
Crisis plan for such facilities
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall ensure that skilled nursing facilities, nursing facilities, and assisted living facilities establish, not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, a crisis plan to manage the outbreak of COVID–19 and other public health emergencies within such facilities. Such plan shall outline procedures relating to infection control, staffing, personal protective equipment, outside medical providers and hospitalizations, and communication with family members.
(c)
PPE requirements for such facilities
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall ensure that skilled nursing facilities, nursing facilities, and assisted living facilities establish, not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, a plan to maintain access to a minimum amount of personal protective equipment described in paragraph (2) to manage the outbreak of COVID–19 and other public health emergencies within such facilities.
(2)
Minimum amount of PPE described
For purposes of paragraph (1), a minimum amount of personal protective equipment described in this paragraph is the amount of such equipment for use by the staff and residents of such facilities for a 30-day period.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Nursing facility
The term
nursing facility
has the meaning given such term in section 1919(a) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396r(a)
).
(2)
Skilled nursing facility
The term
skilled nursing facility
has the meaning given such term in section 1819(a) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395i–3(a)
).
