1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safe Authorization for Vaccines during Emergencies Act
or the
SAVE Act
.
2.
Transparency in emergency use authorization of vaccine products
(a)
Emergency use authorizations
(1)
In general
Section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360bbb–3
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(n)
Requirements with respect to vaccine products during public health emergencies
(1)
Emergency meeting and recommendations
(A)
Emergency meeting
During a public health emergency declared by the Secretary under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act and with respect to a request to authorize the use of an unapproved product that is a vaccine or an unapproved use of an approved product that is a vaccine intended to address the public health threat that is the subject of such public health emergency, prior to authorizing use of such product, subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall convene a meeting at which the Food and Drug Administration and the sponsor of the product present data and information on the product to the Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee for the purpose of reviewing and providing recommendations with respect to emergency use of the product.
(B)
Exception
If the Secretary, in consultation with the Commissioner, determines that a meeting under subparagraph (A) with respect to a product described in such subparagraph would not be in the public interest, the Secretary may make a determination not to convene such a meeting. In the event that the Secretary determines not to convene such a meeting pursuant to this subparagraph, the Secretary shall issue a report to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives that includes justification and relevant public health grounds for such determination.
(2)
Requirement to seek licensure
An authorization under this section with respect to an unapproved product that is a vaccine or an unapproved use of an approved product that is a vaccine shall be conditioned on the sponsor seeking licensure of the product, or the use, as applicable, under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act, at the discretion of the Secretary, within a time period determined by the Secretary.
.
(2)
Confidential information
Section 564(h)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 360bbb–3(h)(1)
) is amended—
(A)
by inserting
, including a summary review,
after
data or information
;
(B)
by striking
505(i), 512(j), or 520(g)
and inserting
505, 510(k), 512(j), 513(f), 515, 520(g), or 564 of this Act or section 351 of the Public Health Service Act
; and
(C)
by striking
may indirectly reveal the existence of such application
and inserting
, including a summary review, may indirectly reveal the existence of such application or contain data or information submitted in an application under such sections
.
(b)
Recommendations with respect to vaccines To address a public health emergency
Section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Recommendations
During a public health emergency declared by the Secretary under subsection (a), not later than 15 days after the authorization under section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of an unapproved product that is a vaccine or an unapproved use of an approved product that is a vaccine intended to address the public health threat that is the subject of such public health emergency, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices shall submit to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Secretary, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives—
(1)
recommendations regarding vaccination, including prioritization of populations for which the vaccine is authorized; or
(2)
a report recommending that the Secretary seek additional data or information in order for the committees to develop recommendations described in paragraph (1).
.
