1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act of 2019
.
2.
Department of homeland security counterterrorism advisory board
(a)
In General
Subtitle A of title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 121
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 210E the following:
210F.
Departmental coordination on counterterrorism
(a)
Authorization
There is authorized in the Department a Counterterrorism Advisory Board (in this section referred to as the
Board
) which shall—
(1)
be composed of senior representatives of departmental operational components and headquarters elements; and
(2)
coordinate departmental intelligence activities and policy and information related to the mission and functions of the Department that counter terrorist threats.
(b)
Charter
There shall be a charter to govern the structure and mission of the Board, which shall—
(1)
direct the Board to focus on the current threat environment and the importance of aligning departmental activities to counter threats under the guidance of the Secretary; and
(2)
be reviewed and updated as appropriate.
(c)
Members
(1)
In general
The Board shall be composed of senior representatives of departmental operational components and headquarters elements.
(2)
Chair
The Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis shall serve as the Chair of the Board.
(3)
Members
The Secretary shall appoint additional members of the Board from among the following:
(A)
The Transportation Security Administration.
(B)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(C)
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
(D)
The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(E)
The Coast Guard.
(F)
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
(G)
The United States Secret Service.
(H)
The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.
(I)
The Office of Operations Coordination.
(J)
The Office of the General Counsel.
(K)
The Office of Intelligence and Analysis.
(L)
The Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans.
(M)
The Science and Technology Directorate.
(N)
The Office for State and Local Law Enforcement.
(O)
The Privacy Office.
(P)
The Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.
(Q)
Other departmental offices and programs as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(d)
Meetings
The Board shall—
(1)
meet on a regular basis to discuss intelligence and coordinate ongoing threat mitigation efforts and departmental activities, including coordination with other Federal, State, local, tribal, territorial, and private sector partners; and
(2)
make recommendations to the Secretary.
(e)
Terrorism alerts
The Board shall advise the Secretary on the issuance of terrorism alerts under section 203.
(f)
Prohibition on additional funds
No additional funds are authorized to carry out this section.
(g)
Sunset
The authority under this section shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of the
Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act of 2019
.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–296
; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 210E the following:
Sec. 210F. Departmental coordination on counterterrorism.
.
(c)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Chair of the Counterterrorism Advisory Board established under section 210F of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by subsection (a), shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report on the status and activities of the Counterterrorism Advisory Board.
(d)
Notice
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide written notification to and brief the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives on any changes to or introductions of new mechanisms to coordinate threats across the Department of Homeland Security.
