1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
End Employer Collusion Act
.
2.
Unfair methods of competition relating to restrictive employment agreements
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Employ; employer; employee
The terms
employ
,
employer
, and
employee
have the meanings given such terms in section 3 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (
29 U.S.C. 203
).
(2)
Restrictive employment agreement
The term
restrictive employment agreement
means any agreement that—
(A)
is between two or more employers, including through a franchise agreement or a contractor-subcontractor agreement; and
(B)
prohibits, restricts, or in any way limits one employer from employing, soliciting, enticing, or hiring another employer’s employees or former employees.
(b)
Conduct prohibited
It shall be unlawful for any entity to—
(1)
enter into a restrictive employment agreement; or
(2)
enforce or threaten to enforce a restrictive employment agreement.
(c)
Removal of restrictive employment agreements in franchise agreements
Any employer that has in effect a franchise agreement that includes a restrictive employment agreement that was entered into prior to the date of enactment of this Act shall, not later than the date which is 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, amend the franchise agreement to remove the restrictive employment agreement.
(d)
Enforcement
(1)
Private right of action
(A)
In general
Any person who fails to comply with subsection (b) or (c) shall be liable to any individual in an amount equal to the sum—
(i)
of any actual damages sustained by the individual as a result of the failure;
(ii)
such amount of punitive damages as the court may allow; and
(iii)
in the case of any successful action to enforce any liability under this section, the costs of the action together with reasonable attorney’s fees as determined by the court.
(B)
Venue
Any person may bring a civil action under subparagraph (A) in any appropriate district court of the United States.
(2)
Federal Trade Commission
(A)
Powers of commission
(i)
In general
The Commission shall enforce this section in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (
15 U.S.C. 41
et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of this section.
(ii)
Privileges and immunities
Any person who violates subsection (b) or (c) shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act (
15 U.S.C. 41
et seq.).
(e)
Restrictive employment agreements
Nothing in this Act may be construed to reduce the amount of damages available to a plaintiff in a case involving a restrictive employment agreement that is between 2 or more employers that are not affiliated with each other through a franchise agreement or contractor-subcontractor agreement.
