1.
Assistance for small manufacturers in the defense industrial supply chain on matters relating to cybersecurity
(a)
In general
Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, may award financial assistance to a Center for the purpose of providing cybersecurity services to small manufacturers.
(b)
Criteria
The Secretary, in consultation with the Director, shall establish and publish on the grants.gov website, or successor website, criteria for selecting recipients for financial assistance under this section.
(c)
Use of financial assistance
Financial assistance under this section—
(1)
shall be used by a Center to provide small manufacturers with cybersecurity services relating to—
(A)
compliance with the cybersecurity requirements of the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, including awareness, assessment, evaluation, preparation, and implementation of cybersecurity services; and
(B)
achieving compliance with the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification framework of the Department of Defense; and
(2)
may be used by a Center to employ trained personnel to deliver cybersecurity services to small manufacturers.
(d)
Biennial reports
(1)
In general
Not less frequently than once every two years, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a biennial report on financial assistance awarded under this section.
(2)
Contents
To the extent practicable, each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the following with respect to the years covered by the report:
(A)
The number of small manufacturing companies assisted.
(B)
A description of the cybersecurity services provided.
(C)
A description of the cybersecurity matters addressed.
(D)
An analysis of the operational effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the cybersecurity services provided.
(e)
Termination
The authority of the Secretary to award financial assistance under this section shall terminate on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
Center
has the meaning given such term in section 25(a) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (
15 U.S.C. 278k(a)
).
(2)
The term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
The term
small manufacturer
has the meaning given that term in section 1644(g) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
;
10 U.S.C. 2224
note).
