Executive Order  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the Selective Service Act of   (62 Stat. 604), as amended, I hereby prescribe the following amendments of   prescribed in part by Executive Order No.  , in part by Executive Order No.   of  , in part by Executive Order No. 9992 of  , and in part by Executive Order No.   of  , and constituting portions of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:

1. Section 1602.5 of Part  ,  , is amended to read as follows:

§ 1602.5 Governor. The word "Governor" includes, where applicable, the Governor of each of the States of  , the Governor of the Territory of  , the Governor of the Territory of Hawaii,   of  , the Governor of  , the Governor of   of  , the Governor of  , and the Governor of the Panama Canal.

2. Section 1602.11 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

§ 1602.11 State. The word "State" includes, where applicable, the several States of  ,  , the Territory of  , the Territory of Hawaii,  ,  ,   of  ,  , and the Canal Zone.

3. Section 1611.11 of Part  , Duty and Responsibility to  , is amended to read as follows:

§ 1611.11   who are not required to register. (a) A male alien who is now in or who hereafter enters   and who has not declared his intention to become a citizen of   shall not be required to be registered under section 3 of Title I of the Selective Service Act of  , as amended, and shall be relieved from liability for training and service under section 4(b) of said act provided:

(1) He is a foreign diplomatic representative, a technical attaché of a foreign embassy or legation, a consul general, a consul, a vice consul, or a consular agent of a foreign country, or a member of the family of any person mentioned in this subparagraph;

(2) He is a full-time official or employee of a foreign government who has been notified to  , or a member of the family of such official or employee;

(3) He is a full-time official or employee of a public international organization which has been designated by the President under the provisions of  , approved   (59 Stat. 669), or a member of the family of any such person;

(4) He is a person who has entered   and remains therein pursuant to the provisions of Section 11 of the Agreement between   and   Regarding the Headquarters of   as approved in Public Law 357, 80th  , approved   (61 Stat. 756);

(5) He is a member of a group of persons who have been temporarily admitted to   under an arrangement with the government of the country of which they are nationals, or an appropriate agency thereof, for   or temporary employment, and continued to be employed in the work for which he was admitted;

(6) He is a person who has entered   temporarily as a non-quota immigrant under the provisions of subdivision (e) of section 4 of the Immigration Act approved  , as amended (43 Stat. 155; 8   204(e)), solely for the purpose of study at an accredited school, college, academy, seminary, or university, particularly designated by him and approved by the Attorney General, and continues to pursue such purpose to the satisfaction of the Attorney General; or

(7) He is a person who has entered   temporarily pursuant to the provisions of section 201 of   of   (62 Stat. 7; 22 U.S.C.  ;  , 80th  ), and continues to pursue the purpose for which he was admitted.

(b) Each alien who is in one of the categories described in subparagraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) of paragraph (a) of this section must have in his personal possession, at all times, an official document issued pursuant to the authorization of or described by   which identifies him as a person not required to present himself for and submit to registration.

(c) Each alien who is in the category described in subparagraph (6) of paragraph (a) of this section must have in his possession and available for examination his passport containing a visa issued by a diplomatic or consular officer of   pursuant to the provisions of subdivision (e) of section 4 of the Immigration Act approved  , as amended (43 Stat. 155; 8 U.S.C. 204(e)).

(d) Each alien who is in the category described in subparagraph (7) of paragraph (a) of this section must have in his possession and available for examination his passport containing a visa issued by a diplomatic or consular officer of   pursuant to the provisions of clause (2) of section 3 of the Immigration Act approved   as amended (43 Stat. 154; 8 U.S.C. 203(2)) in which visa, on the line provided in the visa form for classification, there appear the words " . 201,  , 80th  ."

4. Section 1621.16 of Part  ,  , is amended to read as follows:

§ 1621.16 Permit to leave  . Local boards are authorized to issue to a registrant a permit to depart from the continental  , the Territory of  , the Territory of  ,  ,   of  ,  , or the Canal Zone to any place which is not within any of those areas and should issue the permit unless it is found that the registrant's absence is likely to interfere with the performance of his obligations under the Selective Service Act of  , as amended. Such permit shall be issued by the completion of a Permit for   from   (SSS Form No. 300). Before determining whether a permit should be issued, the local board may require the registrant to complete and file his   (SSS Form No. 100) and such other forms and information as may be necessary to complete his classification. The local board may thereupon classify the registrant if it appears necessary to a determination of the advisability of issuing the permit.

5. Subparagraphs (2), (3) and (4) of paragraph (c) of § 1626.2 of Part  ,   to  , are amended to read as follows:

(2) Within   after the date the local board mails to the registrant a Notice of Classification (SSS Form No. 110), if, on that date, it appears that the registrant is located in one and the local board which classified the registrant is located in another of the following: The continental  , the Territory of  , the Territory of  ,  ,   of  ,  , or the Canal Zone.

(3) Within   after the date the local board mails to the registrant a Notice of Classification (SSS Form No. 110), if, on that date, it appears that the registrant is located in  ,  , or  .

(4) Within   after the date the local board mails to the registrant a Notice of Classification (SSS Form No. 110), if, on that date, it appears that the registrant is located outside the continental  , the Territory of  , the Territory of  ,  ,   of  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

 

 ,

 
