Executive Order  —Preparation by   Plans
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   of  , approved   (Public Law 920, 81st  ), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. In furtherance of national planning for the utilization of the personnel, materials, facilities, and services of the   departments and agencies which will be required in the event of a civil-defense emergency, each   and agency shall, in consultation with  , prepare plans for providing its personnel, materials, facilities, and services pursuant to the provisions of section 302 of the said   during the existence of a civil-defense emergency. The plans of each department and agency shall take into consideration the essential military requirements of   with respect to such department or agency.

 . 2. In addition to the plans required by section 1 hereof, each   and agency shall prepare plans for maintaining the continuity of its essential functions at the seat of Government and elsewhere during the existence of a civil-defense emergency. The personnel, materials, and facilities required for this purpose shall be exclusive of the personnel, materials, and facilities required for the execution of the plans prepared pursuant to section 1 of this order. In the preparation of the continuity plans required by this section, each department and agency shall consult with   with respect to the civil-defense aspects of its functions. In order to achieve uniformity of planning for the continuity of essential functions,   shall establish such standards and policies as it may from time to time deem desirable. That portion of the continuity plans of a department or agency which involves its functions at the seat of Government shall become effective upon approval by the President, and that portion, if any, which involves functions performed elsewhere shall become effective upon approval by the head of the department or agency concerned.

 . 3.   shall assist the departments and agencies by indicating the types of personnel, materials, facilities, and services considered useful for civil-defense purposes in time of emergency; arrange for the use of such personnel, materials, facilities, and services as are not required for maintaining the continuity of the essential functions of the departments and agencies; and coordinate such arrangements with national,  , and local civil-defense plans.

 

 ,

 
