Executive Order 10122—Regulations Governing Payment of Disability Retirement Pay, Hospitalization, and   of Members and Former Members of the  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 414(b) of the Career Compensation Act of  , approved   (Public Law 351, 81st  ), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing payment of disability retirement pay, hospitalization, and re-examination of members and former members of the uniformed services:

SECTION 1. The terms "uniformed services" and "Secretary" as used in these regulations shall have the meaning prescribed therefor by subsections (a) and (f), respectively, of section 102 of the Career Compensation Act of  .

 . 2 (a) Effective as of  , all duties, powers, and functions incident to the payment of disability retirement pay of members or former members of the uniformed services retired for physical disability or receiving disability retirement pay shall, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, be vested in the Secretary concerned.

(b) Effective  , all duties, powers, and functions exercised by the   pursuant to Executive Order No. 8099 of  , as amended by Executive Order No. 8461 of  , relative to the administration of the retirement-pay provisions of section 1 of the act of  , as amended by section 5 of the act of  , 53 Stat. 557, and amendments thereof, shall, as to cases within their respective jurisdictions, be vested in the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of  , and thereafter the   shall not be charged in any case with any further responsibility in the administration of the said retirement-pay provisions. The said Executive Order No. 8099 as amended by the said Executive Order No.   is hereby amended accordingly.

 . 3. Effective as of  , all duties, powers, and functions incident to the hospitalization and re-examination of members of the uniformed services placed on the temporary disability retired list under the provisions of the Career Compensation Act of   shall be vested in the Secretary concerned.

 . 4. Effective  , all duties, powers, and functions incident to the hospitalization of members or former members of the uniformed services permanently retired for physical disability or receiving disability retirement pay shall, except as provided n section 5 of this order, be vested in the Secretary concerned: Provided, that all the duties, powers, and functions incident to hospitalization which such members or former members are entitled to and elect to receive in facilities of  , other than hospitals under the jurisdiction of the uniformed services, shall be vested in the Administrator of  .

 . 5. Effective  , all duties, powers, and functions incident to the hospitalization of members or former members of the uniformed services permanently retired for physical disability or receiving disability retirement pay who require hospitalization for chronic diseases shall be vested in the Administrator of  ' Affairs: Provided, that all duties, powers, and functions incident to the hospitalization of such members or former members who are or have been admitted to hospitals under the jurisdiction of the uniformed services before  , may be exercised by the Secretary concerned until  : And provided further, that for the purposes of this order, the term "chronic diseases" shall be construed to include chronic arthritis, malignancy, psychiatric or  , paraplegia, tuberculosis, and such other diseases as may be so defined jointly by the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , and the   administrator and so described in appropriate regulations of the respective departments and agencies concerned. Executive  . 9703 of  , prescribing regulations relating to the medical care of certain personnel of  ,  , and former  , is hereby amended to the extent necessary to conform it to the provisions of this section.

 . 6. Except as provided in section 5 hereof with respect to hospitalization for chronic diseases, nothing in this order shall be construed to affect the duties, powers, and functions of   with respect to hospitalization and medical examination of members and former members of   and   under  , approved   (58 Stat. 682), as amended, and the regulations prescribed by the said Executive Order No. 9703 of  .

 . 7. Nothing in this order shall be construed to affect the duties, powers, and functions vested in the Administrator of   pursuant to the provisions of the act of  , entitled "An Act making eligible for retirement, under certain conditions, officers and former officers of the  ,  , and   of  , other than officers of  ,  , or  , who incurred physical disability in line of duty while in the service of   during the World War" (45 Stat. 735, as amended), or by or pursuant to the act of  , entitled "An Act to provide retirement pay and hospital benefits to certain   officers,   of  , disabled while on active duty" (55 Stat. 733).

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
