Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, and Title II of the First War Powers Act,  , as amended and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is ordered as follows:

PART I. DEFENSE MATERIALS PROCUREMENT AGENCY

Section 101. (a) There is hereby created an agency which shall be known as  . There shall be at the head of the said agency a  , who shall perform his duties subject to direction,  , and coordination by the Director of Defense Mobilization.

(b)   shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the  . There may be appointed to the office of   any officer of the   branch of the Government designated by the President to hold the office of   in addition to his other office: Provided, That the office of Administrator shall have no compensation attached to it so long as it is held by any other officer of the Government.

PART II. FUNCTIONS OF   . 201. Sections 303 and 3014 of Executive Order No.   of   (15  ), as amended, are hereby revoked, and there are hereby inserted in lieu thereof the following new sections:

" . 303.   is hereby authorized and directed to purchase and make commitments to purchase metals, minerals, and other materials, for Government use or resale, as authorized by and subject to the provisions of section 303 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended: Provided, That the Secretary of   is also authorized to exercise the said functions under section 303 of the said Act, as amended, with respect to food.

" . 304.   is hereby authorized and directed to encourage the exploration, development, and mining of critical and strategic minerals and metals, as authorized by and subject to the provisions of section 303 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended.

" . 305.   is hereby authorized and directed to make subsidy payments, to determine the amounts, manner, terms, and conditions thereof, and to make finding, as authorized by and subject to the provisions of section 303 (c) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended.

" . 306. The functions conferred upon the President by section 303 (e) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, with respect to the installation of additional equipment, facilities, processes, or improvements to plants, factories, and other industrial facilities owned by  , and with respect to the installation of government-owned equipment in plants, factories, and other industrial facilities owned by private persons, are hereby delegated to  .

" . 307. The functions conferred upon   by sections 303 to 306, inclusive, of this   order, shall be carried out in accordance with programs certified to the said Administrator by   Provided, That any exercise by   of the functions provided for in section 303 hereof with respect to food shall be carried out in accordance with programs certified to him by the Secretary of Agriculture.

" . 308. All functions provided for in sections 303 to 306, inclusive, of this   order shall be carried out within such amounts of funds as may be made available pursuant to the Defense Production Act of  , as amended.

" . 309.   may from time to time recommend to appropriate agencies of the Government the use for stabilization purposes of subsidies authorized by the Defense Production Act of  , as amended."

 . 202.   is hereby designated as an additional guaranteeing agency under section 301 of the Defense Production. Act of  , as amended; and, accordingly, section 301 of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, is hereby amended by inserting therein, after the words " ", the words " ,".

 . 203. The provisions of Part I of Executive Order No.   of   (16 F.R.  ), entitled "Authorizing the Department of Defense and the Department of Commerce To Exercise the Functions and Powers Set Forth in Title II of the First War Powers Act,  , as Amended by the Act of  , and Prescribing Regulations for the Exercise of Such Functions and Powers", are hereby extended to  ; and, subject to the limitations and regulations contained in such Part I and under such regulations as he may prescribe,   is authorized to perform and exercise, as to  , all the functions and authority vested in and granted by Part I of the said Executive Order No.   to the   named therein: Provided, That the regulations so prescribed need not be approved by the Secretary of Defense: And provided further, That nothing contained herein shall prejudice any other authority which   or   may have with respect to procurement.

PART III. LOANS TO PRIVATE BUSINESS ENTERPRISES

 . 301. Part III of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, is hereby further amended by adding after section 309 thereof (as added by Part II of this   order) the following new sections:

" . 310. (a)   is hereby authorized and directed to make loans (including participations in or guarantees of loans) to private business enterprises (including research corporations not organized for profit) for the expansion of capacity, the development of technological processes, and the production of essential materials, including the exploration, development, and mining of strategic and critical metals and minerals, exclusive of such expansion, development and production in foreign countries, as authorized by and subject to section 302 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, and within such amounts of funds as may be made available pursuant to the Defense Production Act of  , as amended.

"(b) Loans under section 310 (a) hereof (1) shall be made upon such terms and conditions as the   well determine, (2) shall be made only after the   has determined in each instance that financial assistance is not available on reasonable terms from private sources or from other governmental sources, and (3), except in the case of working capital loans (involving no more than minor expansion of capacity which is incidental to a loan for working capital) shall be made only upon certificate of essentiality of the loan, which certificate shall be made by the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to food and food facilities and by   with respect to all other materials and facilities.

"(c) Applications for loans under section 310 (a) hereof shall be received from applicants by the   or by such agencies of the Government as the   shall designate for this purpose.

" . 311. (a) The Export-Import Bank of Washington is hereby authorized and directed to make loans (including participations in loans) to private business enterprises, for the expansion of capacity, the development of technological processes, and the production of essential materials, including the exploration, development, and mining of strategic and critical metals and minerals, in those cases where such expansion, development or production is carried on in foreign countries, as authorized by and subject to section 302 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, and within such amounts of funds as may be made available pursuant to the Defense Production Act of  , as amended.

"(b) Loans under section 311 (a) hereof (1) shall be made upon such terms and conditions as the said   shall determine, (2) shall be made only after the   has determined in each instance that financial assistance is not available on reasonable terms from private sources and that the loan involved cannot be made under the provisions of and from funds available to the   under the Export-Import Bank Act of  , as amended, and (3) shall be made only upon certificate of essentiality of the loan, which certificate shall be made by the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to food and food facilities and by   with respect to all other materials and facilities.

"(b) Applications for loans under section 311 (a) hereof shall be received from applicants by the said   or by such agencies of the Government as the   shall designate for this purpose."

PART IV.   AMENDMENTS OF PRIOR ORDERS

 . 401. Executive  .   of  , as amended, is hereby further amended by inserting the following after section 801 thereof:

 . 802. All functions delegated or assigned by or pursuant to this   order, or by or pursuant to any other Executive order provision amendatory or supplementary to this   order, including any such provision in an   order hereafter promulgated, shall be performed, by the respective officers and agencies concerned, subject to the direction, control, and coordination of the Director of Defense Mobilization."

 . 402. Section 901 of Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended by adding after paragraph (k) thereof a new paragraph (1), to read as follows:

"(1) The term 'Defense Production Act of  ' includes, except as may be inappropriate, the Defense Production Act of  , as amended."

 . 403. Section 201 (b) of Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

"(b) The functions conferred upon the President by sections 201 (c) and 201 (d) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, exclusive of determinations with respect to the termination of the need for the: national defense of any property acquired under Title II of the said Act (before or after amendment of the said Title II), are hereby delegated to  ."

 . 404. Section 301 of Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended by inserting therein, after the words " ," the words " ,". Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby revoked.

 . 405. (a) The term "Defense Production Act of  ," wherever it occurs in Executive Order No. 10200 of  , shall be deemed to include, except as may be inappropriate, the Defense Production Act of  , as amended.

(b)        The functions delegated to   by Section 2 (a) of Executive Order No. 10200 of  , shall be deemed to include the functions conferred upon the President by section 201 (b) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended.

(c)        Section 2 (b) of the said Executive  . 10200 is hereby revoked. (d) Except as specifically provided in this   order, the provisions of Executive Order No. 10200 shall not be deemed to be revoked or superseded hereby.

PART V. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 . 501. (a) There shall be transferred to   so much of the personnel, records, property, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds of the various agencies now administering the activities under the Defense Production Act of   which by this order are delegated or assigned to   or the head thereof as the Director of   deems to relate to the said functions and to be required by   for the performance of the said functions.

(b) The Director of  , with the approval of the President, shall make such determinations and dispositions and take such measures, which shall be carried out in such manner as the Director shall direct and by such agencies as he shall designate, as he shall deem to be necessary in order to effectuate the provisions of section 501 (a) hereof.

 . 502. (a) To the extent that any provision of any prior Executive order is inconsistent with the provisions of this order, the latter shall control and such prior provision is amended accordingly.

(b) All orders, regulations, rulings, certificates, directives, and other actions relating to any function affected by this   order shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under proper authority.

 . 503. Part II and section 501 of this   order shall not become effective until   first appointed hereunder enters upon office as Administrator.

 

 

 , 12:31 p.m.
