Executive Order 9608—Providing for the Termination of  , and for   and of   of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and Statutes, including Title I of the First War Powers Act,  , and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. Effective as of the date of this order:

(1) There are transferred to and consolidated in an  , which is hereby established in  , those functions of   (established by Executive Order No. 9182 of  ), and those informational functions of   (established as   by Executive Order No.   of   and renamed as   by Executive Order No. 9532 of  ), which are performed abroad or which consist of or are concerned with informing the people of other nations about any matter in which   has an interest, together with so much of the personnel, records, property, and appropriation balances of   and   as the Director of   shall determine to relate primarily to the functions so transferred. Pending the abolition of the said Service under paragraph 3(a) of this order, (1) the head of the Service, who shall be designated by the Secretary of  , shall be responsible to the Secretary of   or to such other officer of   s the Secretary shall direct, (2) the Service shall, except as otherwise provide in this order, be administered as an organizational entity in  , (3) the Secretary may transfer from the Service, to such agencies of   as he shall designate or establish, any function of the Service, and (4) the Secretary may terminate any function of the Service, in which event he shall provide for the winding up of the affairs relating to any function so terminated.

(b) There are transferred to   the functions of   and functions of   with respect to the review of publications of Federal agencies, together with so much of the personnel, records, and property, and appropriation balances of   as the Director of the bureau of the   shall determine relate primarily to the said functions.

(c) All those provisions of prior Executive orders which are in conflict with this order are amended accordingly. Paragraph 6 of the said Executive Order No.   and paragraphs 3,  , and 8 of the said Executive Order No.   are revoked.

2. Effective as o the close of business  

(a) There are abolished the functions of   then remaining.

(b) The Director of   shall, pending the abolition of   under paragraph 3(b) of this order, proceed to wind up the affairs of the Office relating to such abolished functions.

3. Effective as of the close of business  :

(a)  , provided for in paragraph 1(a) of this order, together with any functions then remaining under the Service, is abolished.

(b)  , including the office of the Director of  , is abolished.

(c) There are transferred to   all of the personnel, records, property, and appropriation balances of   and of   then remaining, for final liquidation, and so much thereof as the Director of   shall determine to be necessary shall be utilized by the Secretary of the   in winding up all of the affairs of the Service.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
