Executive Order  —Providing the Transfer of Properties and Personnel to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statues, including the Atomic Energy Act of  , and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and the  , it is hereby ordered and directed as follows:

1. There are transferred to   all interests owned by   or any Government agency in the following property:

(a) All fissionable material; all atomic weapons and parts thereof; all facilities, equipment, and materials for the processing, production, or utilization of fissionable material or atomic energy; all processes and technical information of any kind, and the source thereof (including data, drawings, specifications, patents, patent application, and other sources) relating to the processing, production, or utilization of fissionable material or atomic energy; and all contracts, agreements, leases, patents, applications for patents, inventions and discoveries (whether patented or unpatented), and other rights of any kind concerning any such items.

(b) All facilities, equipment, and materials, devoted primarily to atomic energy research and development.

2. There also are transferred to   all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, including records, owned by or in the possession, custody or control of  , War Department, in addition to the property described in paragraph 1 above. Specific records, may be excepted from transfer to the   in the following manner:

(a) The Secretary of War shall notify the   in writing as to the specific items of property or records he wishes to except; and

(b) If after full examination of the facts by the  , it concurs in the exception, those specific items of property or records shall be excepted from transfer to the  ; or

(c) If after full examination of the facts by the  , it does not concur in the exception, the matter shall be referred to the President for decision.

3.   shall exercise full jurisdiction over all interests and property transferred to the   in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, in accordance with the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of  .

4. Any Government agency is authorized to transfer to  , at the request of the  , any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, acquired or used by such Government agency in connection with any of the property or interests transferred to the   by paragraphs 1 and 2 above.

5. Each Government agency shall supply   with a report on, and an accounting and inventory of, all interests and property, described in paragraphs 1, 2, and 4 above, owned by or in the possession, custody or control of such Government agency, the form and detail of such report, accounting and inventory, to be determined by mutual agreement, or, in the case of nonagreement, by the Director of  .

6. (a) There also are transferred to  , all civilian officers and employees of  , War Department, except that the   and the Secretary of Wary may by mutual agreement exclude any of such personnel from transfer to the  .

(b) The military and naval personnel heretofore assigned or detailed to  , War Department, shall continue to be made available to the  , for military and naval duty, in similar manner, without prejudice to the military or naval status of such personnel, for such periods of time as may be agreed mutually by the   and the Secretary of War or the Secretary of the  .

7. The assistance and the services, personal or other, including the use of property, heretofore made available by any Government agency to  ,  , shall be made available to   for the same purposes as heretofore and under the arrangements now existing until terminated after   notice given by the   or by the   agency concerned in each case.

8. The   is authorized to exercise all the powers and functions vested in the Secretary of War by Executive Order  , of  , as amended, in so far as they relate to contracts heretofore made by or hereby transferred to the  .

9. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by   and any Government agency concerned to be necessary to effectuate the transfers authorized or directed by this order shall be carried out in such manner as the Director of   may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.

10. This order shall be effective as of midnight,  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
