Executive Order 9672—Establishing   and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and Statutes, including Title I of the First War Powers Act,  , and the Stabilization Act of  , as amended, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. (a) There is hereby established within   to be known as  , hereinafter referred to as the Board. The Board shall be composed of six members to be appointed by the President (two of whom, including the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman, shall be representative of the public, two representative of employees, and two representative of employers), and such additional members as may, in view of the necessities of the business of the Board, be appointed from time to time by unanimous action of a quorum of the   to serve as alternates representing, respectively, the public, employees, and employers.

(b) Six members, equally representative of the three groups comprising the  , shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the   may act with not more than twelve members likewise equally representative of such three groups.

(c) Members of the Board (including alternates) shall receive actual transportation expenses and other necessary expenses, and not to exceed $25 per diem in lieu of subsistence, whether or not in travel status, on   as they are actually engaged in the performance of duties pursuant to this order without other compensation from  .

(d) The Board shall be administered as an organizational entity within   and shall be independent with respect to its policies, decisions, and control of personnel.

2. The   shall have all the present powers, functions, and responsibilities of   (established by Executive Order No. 9017 of  , and transferred to   by Executive Order No.   of   relating to the stabilization of wages and salaries for the purpose of carrying out the objectives authorized and directed by the Emergency Price Control Act of  , as amended, and the Stabilization Act of  , as amended, in accordance with the policies and procedures provided by Executive orders and regulations issued pursuant to these Acts.   for the building and construction industry shall continue to perform its present functions with respect to the stabilization of wages and salaries in the building and construction industry.

3. Any dispute cases on which final action may not have been taken by   prior to its termination shall be returned by said board to the parties. The   shall have all the powers, functions and responsibilities of   relating to the disposition of dispute cases for the following purposes only:

(a) The continued operation of the tripartite commissions, heretofore established by   to carry out its directive orders relating to the steel, textile, and meat-packing industries, with the duties, powers and responsibilities heretofore conferred on said agencies, subject to any modification thereof which may be made by the  ;

(b) The appointment of arbitrators as may be necessary under   orders or collective bargaining agreements;

(c) The disposition of applications under Section 5 of the War Labor Disputes Act and the receipt of notices under Section 8 of that Act.

The   shall have the powers of subpoena conferred upon   by Section 7 of the War Labor Disputes Act.

4. The personnel, records, property, funds, and outstanding obligations of   are hereby transferred to   in   and   is hereby terminated.

5. This order shall be deemed an amendment of and substitution for paragraph 2(b) of Executive Order No.   of  . All other provisions of that order, to the extent consistent herewith, are hereby ratified and confirmed. All provisions of prior Executive orders in conflict with this order are amended accordingly. The present effective rules, regulations, procedures, and orders of   relating to any function vested in the national   by this order shall continue to be effective in accordance with their terms except as they may be inconsistent with this order or be modified or revoked from time to time by the Board. Any matter relating to the functions transferred by this order and now pending before   may be acted upon by   with the same validity and effect as through such action had been taken by  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
