Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby created a board to be known as the President's   which shall be composed of a chairman and four other members to be designated by the President.

2. It shall be the function of the   to study the present and potential use of radio and wire communications facilities by governmental and non-governmental agencies and to make and present to the President evaluations and recommendations in the national interest concerning (a) policies for the most effective use of radio frequencies by governmental and non-governmental users and alternative administrative arrangements in   for the sound effectuation of such policies, (b) policies with respect to international radio and wire communications, (c) the relationship of Government communications to non-government communications, and (d) such related policy matters as the   may determine.

3. The   is authorized to hear and consult with representatives of industry and   concerned with the subjects under study by  . All executive departments and agencies of   are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   in its work and to furnish the   such information as it may require in the performance of its duties. The   shall protect the security of any classified information submitted to it.

4. Each member of the   shall, while away from his home or regular place of business and engaged in the official business of the Board, receive actual traveling expenses and per diem allowances in lieu of subsistence in accordance with rates established by  , as amended.

5. During   the expenditures of the   and the traveling expenses and per diem allowances of the members thereof shall be paid out of an allotment made by the President from the appropriation appearing under the heading "Emergency Fund for the President" in  ,   (Public Law 266, approved  ); and during   the same shall be similarly paid from any corresponding or like appropriation made available for  . Such payments shall be made without regard to the provisions of (a) section 3681 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 672), (b) section 9 of the act of  , 35 Stat.   (31 U.S.C. 673), and (c) such other laws as the President may hereafter specify.

The   shall terminate   after the date of this order.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
