Executive Order  —Prescribing Procedures for the Administration of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Program
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including section 332 of the Tariff Act of   (46 Stat. 698) and the Trade Agreements Act approved  , as amended (48 Stat. 943; 59 Stat. 410), in the interest of the foreign affairs functions of   and in order that the interests of the various ranches of   production shall be effectively safeguarded in the administration of the trade-agreements program, it is hereby ordered as follows:

PART I

1. There shall be included in every trade agreement hereafter entered into under the authority of said act of  , as amended, a clause providing developments and in effect that if, as a result of unforeseen developments and of the concession granted by   on any article in the trade agreement, such article is being imported in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause, or threaten, serious injury to domestic producers of like or similar articles,   shall be free to withdraw the concession, in whole or in part, or to modify it, to the extent and for such time as may be necessary to prevent such injury.

2.   upon its own motion, or upon application of any interested party when in the judgment of   there is good and sufficient reason therefor, shall make an investigation to determine whether, as a result of unforeseen development as of the concession granted on any article by   in a trade agreement containing such a clause, such article is being imported in such increase quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten serious injury to domestic producers of like or similar articles. Should   find, as a result of its investigation, that such injury is being caused or threatened, the   shall recommend to the President, for his consideration in the light of the public interest, the withdrawal of the concession, in whole or in part, or the modification of the concession, to the extent and for such time as   finds would be necessary to prevent such injury.

3. In the course of any investigation under the preceding paragraph, the   shall hold public hearings, giving such reasonable public notice thereof, and shall afford reasonable opportunity for parties interested to be present, to produce evidence, and to be heard at such hearings. The procedure and rules and regulations for such investigations and hearings shall from time to time be prescribed by  .

4. The Tariff Commission shall at all times keep informed concerning the operation and effect of provisions relating to duties or other import restrictions of   contained din trade agreements heretofore or hereafter entered into by the President under the authority of said act of  , as amended.  , at least once a year, shall submit to the President and to the   a factual report on the operation of the trade-agreements program.

PART II

5.   (hereinafter referred to as  ) shall act as the agency through which the President shall, in accordance with section 4 of said act of  , as amended, seek information and advice before concluding a trade agreement. In order that the interests of   industry, labor, and farmers, and   military, financial, and foreign policy, shall be appropriately represented, the   shall consist of a Commissioner of   and of persons designated from their respective agencies by the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  . The chairman of   shall be the representative from  .   may designate such subcommittees as it may deem necessary.

6. With respect to each dutiable import item which is considered by   for inclusion in a trade agreement, the   shall make an analysis of the fact relative to the production, trade, and consumption of the article involved, to the probable effect of granting a concession thereon, and to the competitive factors involved. Such analysis shall be submitted in digest form to  . The digests, excepting confidential material, shall be published by  .

7. With respect to each export item which is considered by   for inclusion in a trade agreement,   shall make an analysis of the facts relative to the production, trade, and consumption of the article involved, to the probably effect of obtaining a concession thereon, and to the competitive factors involved. Such analysis shall be submitted in digest form to  .

8. After analysis and consideration of the studies of   and   provided for in paragraphs 6 and 7 hereof, of the views of interested persons presented to   (established by Executive Order  , dated  , as amended by Executive  , dated  ), and of any other information available to the   shall make such recommendations to the President relative to the conclusion of trade agreements, and to the provisions to be included therein, as are considered appropriate to carry out the purposes set forth in said act of  , as amended. If any such recommendation to the President with respect to the inclusions of a concession in any trade agreement is not unanimous, the President shall be provided with a full report by the dissenting member or members of   giving the reasons for their dissent and specifying the point beyond which they consider any reduction or concession involved cannot be made without injury to the domestic economy.

PART III

9. There shall also be included in every trade agreement hereafter entered into under the authority of said act of  , as amended, a most-favored nation provision securing for the exports of   the benefits of all tariff concessions and other tariff advantages hereafter accorded by the other party or parties to the agreement to any third country. These provisions shall be subject to the minimum of necessary exceptions and shall be designed to obtain the greatest possible benefits for exports from the Untied States. The   shall keep informed of discriminations of any country against the trade of   which cannot be removed by normal diplomatic representations and, if the public interest will be served thereby, shall recommend to the President the withholding from such country of the benefit of concessions granted under said act.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
