Executive Order  —Transferring Certain Functions and Delegating Certain Powers to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  ), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There are hereby transferred from   to   the functions with respect to

(1) any assistance given to small-business establishments concerning Government procurement,

(2) the furnishing of advice to small-business establishments concerning the approval and operation of small-business production pools,

(3) the classification of manufacturing concerns according to size,

(4) economic studies of small-business defense problems, exclusive of so much of such studies as is necessary to be made by   or its successor to determine the effect of actions taken by it,

(5) the furnishing of advice and information concerning Government financial assistance to small business,

(6) the coordination of the inventorying of the available productive capacity of small business, and

(7) the development and distribution of managerial aids for small business, excluding that part thereof which is performed for or otherwise relates to educational institutions which were on  , administered by   in the national  ,  .

 . 2. The functions hereinabove transferred shall be administered by   o, subject to his direction and control, by such officers and employees of   as he shall designate.

 . 3. Officers of the Government exercising functions which are pertinent to the responsibilities of   shall facilitate the discharge of those responsibilities by keeping   currently informed with respect to the exercise of such functions, including prospective actions, and by providing for participation in deliberations affecting small businesses by representatives of  .

 . 4. There shall be transferred to   so much of the personnel, records, property, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds of   as the Director of   shall, with the approval of the President, determine to relate primarily to the functions transferred by section 1 of this order.

 . 5. The provisions of sections 902 and 903 of Executive Order No.  , as amended (including those with respect to subpoena), are hereby made applicable to   with respect to his functions under section 714 of the Defense Production Act, as amended, and under this order.

 . 6. To the extent that any provision of any prior Executive order or directive is inconsistent with the provisions of this order, the latter shall control

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
