Executive Order  —Prescribing Procedures for Making Available to the Secretary General of   United States   or   on the Secretariat of the United Nations
 
 

WHEREAS   has ratified the Charter of the United Nations and is participating in the activities of   by virtue of the ratification of the said Charter (59 Stat.  ), and of the authority granted by   of 1945 (59 Stat. 619); and

WHEREAS a   has advised the Secretary General of   that he should regard it as of the first importance to refrain from employing or to dismiss from employment on the Secretariat of   any   citizen who he has reasonable grounds for believing has been, is, or is likely to be, engaged in espionage or subversive activities against  ; and

WHEREAS   has also advised that   should make available to the Secretary General information on which the Secretary General can make his determination as to whether reasonable grounds exist for believing that a   citizen employed or being considered for employment on the Secretariat has been, is, or is likely to be, engaged in espionage or subversive activities against  ; and

WHEREAS   has further advised that the independence of the Secretary General and his sole responsibility to   for the selection and retention of staff should be recognized by all Member  ; and

WHEREAS the Secretary General has declared his intention to use the conclusions and recommendations of the opinion of the said   as the basis of his personnel policy in discharging the responsibilities entrusted to him by the Charter and staff regulations of  ; and

WHEREAS in the participation by   in the activities of   it is in the interest of   that   citizens who are employees of the Secretariat of the United Nations be persons of the highest integrity and not persons who have been, are, or are likely to be, engaged in espionage or subversive activities against  ; and

WHEREAS it is in the interest of   to establish a procedure for the acquisition of information by investigation and for its transmission to the Secretary General in order to assist the Secretary General in the exercise of his responsibility for determining whether any   citizen employed or being considered for employment on the Secretariat has been, is, or is likely to be, engaged in espionage or subversive activities against  ; and

WHEREAS such procedure should afford opportunity for hearing to any   citizen employed or being considered for employment on the   as to whom an investigation discloses derogatory information, so that the person affected may challenge the accuracy of any such information;

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution, statutes, and treaties of  , including the Charter of the United Nations, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

PART I - INVESTIGATION OF UNITED STATES CITIZENS EMPLOYED OR BEING CONSIDERED FOR EMPLOYMENT ON THE SECRETARIAT OF  

1. Upon the receipt by the Secretary of   from the Secretary General of   of the name of and other necessary identifying data concerning each   citizen employed or being considered for employment by  , there shall be an investigation of such person in accordance with the standard set forth in Part II of this order.

2. The Secretary of   shall forward the information received from the Secretary General of   to  , and the   shall conduct a preliminary investigation.

3. The preliminary investigation conducted by   of any such person shall be made at all available pertinent sources of information and shall include reference to:

(a)   files.

(b)   files.

(c) Military and naval intelligence files as appropriate.

(d) The files of any other appropriate Government investigative or intelligence agency.

(e) The files of appropriate committees of the  .

(f) Local law-enforcement files at the place of residence and employment of the person, including municipal, county, and   law-enforcement files.

(g) Schools and colleges attended by the person.

(h) Former employers of the person.

(i) References given by the person.

(j) Any other appropriate source.

4. Whenever information revealed with respect to any such person is derogatory, within the standard set forth in Part II of this order,   shall forward the information to  , and the Bureau shall conduct a full field investigation of such person: Provided, that in all cases involving a   citizen employed or being considered for employment on the internationally recruited staff of  , the investigation required by this Part shall be a full field investigation conducted by  .

5. Reports of full field investigations shall be forwarded through   to the appropriate   of  . Whenever such a report contains derogatory information, under the standard set forth in Part II of this order, there shall be made available to the person in question the procedures of   (including the opportunity of a hearing) and the right of appeal to the  ''s  , in like manner as provided for with respect to employment with the executive branch of   under Executive Order No.   of  , as amended.  , or   on appeal, shall transmit its determinations, together with the reasons therefor stated in such detail as security considerations permit, to the Secretary of   for transmission to the Secretary General of   for his use in exercising the responsibility with respect to the integrity of the personnel employed by   imposed upon him by the Charter of   and the regulations established by  , and in light of  .

6. At any stage during the investigation or loyalty board proceeding the Secretary of   may forward to the Secretary General, in as much detail as the investigative and loyalty review agencies determine that security considerations will permit, the derogatory information disclosed by investigation. This shall be for the purpose of permitting the Secretary General to determine whether or not he should take interim action with respect to the employee prior to the completion of the procedures outlined in this order. The making available of any such information shall be without prejudice to the right of full hearing and appeal as provided for herein.

7. The Secretary of   shall notify the Secretary General in all cases in which no derogatory information has been developed.

PART II-STANDARD

1. The standard to be used by   or by   on appeal, in making an advisory determination as provided for in paragraph 5 of Part I of this order with respect to a   citizen who is an employee or is being considered for employment by  , shall be whether or not on all the evidence there is a reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to  .

2. Activities and associations of a   citizen who is an employee or being considered for employment by   which may be considered in connection with the determination whether or not on all the evidence there is a reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to   may include one or more of the following:

(a) Sabotage, espionage, or attempts or preparations therefor, or knowingly associating with spies or saboteurs.

(b)   or sedition or advocacy thereof.

(c) Advocacy of revolution or force or violence to alter the constitutional form of government of  .

(d) Intentional, unauthorized disclosure to any person, under circumstances which may indicate disloyalty to  , of   documents or   information of a confidential or non-public character obtained by the person making the disclosure as a result of his previous employment by   or otherwise.

(e) Performing or attempting to perform his duties, or otherwise acting, while an employee of   during a previous period, so as to serve the interests of another government in preference to the interests of  .

(f) Membership in, or affiliation or sympathetic association with, any foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, or group or combination of persons, designated by the Attorney General as totalitarian, fascists, communist, or subversive, or as having adopted a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or as seeking to alter the form of government of   by unconstitutional means.

PART III-OTHER INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

The provisions of Parts I and II of this order shall be applicable to   citizens who are employees of, or are being considered for employment by, other public international organizations of which   is a member, by arrangement between the executive head of the international organization concerned and the Secretary of   or other officer of   designated by the President.

 

 ,

 .
