Executive Order  —Providing for   of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 404 of   of  , approved   (Public Law 329, 81st  ), hereinafter referred to as the Act, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. (a) The Secretary of   is authorized and directed to perform the functions and exercise the powers and authority vested in the President by the act, except by section 303, section 405, subsection (e) of section 406 clause 2 of subsection (b) of section 407, and subsection (b) of section 411 thereof.

(b) Within the scope of the authority delegated to him by this order, the Secretary of   shall (1) have responsibility and authority for the direction of the programs authorized by the Act, (2) make full and effective use of agencies, departments, establishments, and wholly-owned corporations of the Government, with the consent of the respective heads thereof, in the conduct of operations under such programs, and coordinate the operations of such programs among them, and (e) advise and consult with the Secretary of   and   in order to assure the coordination of the mutual-defense-assistance activities with the national-defense and economic-recovery programs.

2. All assistance provided to recipient countries under the authority delegated by this order shall be in conformity with programs approved by the Secretary of   after consultation with the Secretary of   and  . As provided in section 401 of the Act, no equipment or material may be transferred out of military stocks if the Secretary of  , after consultation with  , determines that such transfer would be detrimental to the national security of   or that such equipment or material is needed by the reserve components of the armed forces to meet their training requirements.   shall advise the Secretary of   concerning the effect of programs approved by the Secretary of   under the authority delegated to him by this order upon the achievement of the purposes of the Economic Cooperation Act of  , as amended, and of the purposes of   program of economic assistance in  .

3. Funds appropriated or otherwise made available for the purposes of carrying out the portions of the Act pertinent to the authority delegated by this order may be allocated by the Secretary of   to any agency, department, establishment, or wholly-owned corporation of the Government for obligation and expenditure in accordance with programs approved by the Secretary of   under such authority.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
