Executive Order  —  of the Continental Shelf as a Naval Petroleum Reserve
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) Subject to valid existing rights, if any, and to the provisions of this order, the lands of the continental shelf of   and   lying seaward of the line of mean low tide and outside the inland waters and extending to the furthermost limits of the paramount rights, full dominion, and power of   over lands of the continental shelf are hereby set aside as a naval petroleum reserve and shall be administered by the Secretary of the  .

(b) The reservation established by this section shall be for oil and gas only, and shall not interfere with the use of the lands or waters within the reserved area for any lawful purpose not inconsistent with the reservation.

 . 2. The provisions of this order shall not affect the operating stipulation which was entered into on  , by the Attorney General of   and the Attorney General of   in the case of   America v. State of   (in   of  , October Term,  , No. 12,  ), as thereafter extended and modified.

 . 3. (a) The functions of the Secretary of   and III of the notice issued by the Secretary of the   on  , and entitled "Oil and Gas Operations in   of the Gulf of Mexico" (14 F.R. 8835), as supplemented and amended , are transferred to the Secretary of the  ; and the term "Secretary of the  " shall be substituted for the term "Secretary of the  " wherever the latter term occurs in the said Parts II and III.

(b) Paragraph (c) of Part III of the aforesaid notice dated  , as amended, is amended to read as follows:

"(c) The remittance shall be deposited in a suspense account within the   of  , subject to the control of the Secretary of the  , the proceeds to be expended in such manner as may hereafter be directed by an act of   or, in the absence of such direction, refunded (which may include a refund of the money for reasons other than those hereinafter set forth) or deposited into the general fund of the  , as the Secretary of the   may deem to be proper."

(c) The provisions of parts II and III of the aforesaid notice dated  , as supplemented and amended, including the amendments made by this order, shall continue in effect, until changed by the Secretary of the  .

 . 4. Executive  .   of   entitles "Reserving and Placing Certain Resources of the Continental Shelf under the Control and Jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior" (10  ), is hereby revoked.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
