Executive Order  —Establishing   and Defining Its Functions
 
 

By virtue of the authority VESTED IN ME BY THE Constitution and statues including the Trading with the Enemy Act of  , 40 Stat. 411, as amended,   of  , 60 Stat, 418, the First War Powers Act,  , 55 Stat. 838, as amended, section 1753 of the Revised Statutes, and the Civil Service Act, 22 Stat. 403, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered, in the interest of the internal management of the Government, as follows:

1. There is established in   of the President  , at the head of which shall be a Philippine Alien Property Administrator appointed by the President, without regard to the civil service laws.   shall receive compensation at such rate as the President shall approve and in addition shall be entitled to actual and necessary transportation, housing, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of his duties. Within the limitation of such funds as may be made available for that purpose, and without regard to the civil service laws,   may appoint assistants and other personnel and delegate to them such functions as he may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this order. Such personnel of  ,  , as are engaged in the exercise of the functions transferred hereunder, may be transferred to   without loss of such civil-service status or eligibility therefor as they may possess. Any employee of a department or agency of   who possesses special qualifications or experience of particular use to   may, upon request by  , be transferred with his consent and that of the department or agency in which he is employed, without loss of such civilian-service status or eligibility therefor as such person may possess, to a position under  . Upon application for re-employment made to the original employing department or agency within   after termination of the service of the employee in the position to which he is transferred under the provisions of this section, and upon presentation of a statement by   or his authorized representatives, reciting the date of termination of such service, that the services of such employee have been satisfactory and that such termination was not the result of delinquency or misconduct on the part of the employee, such employee shall, if qualified to perform the duties of his position, be reemployed in his original position or in a position of like seniority, status and pay, so long as the position the employee left, or one of like seniority, status, and pay is occupied by an employee with lower retention preference.

2.   is hereby designated to exercise and perform, and there are hereby transferred to him, such rights, privileges, powers, authority, duties and functions, with respect to property located within the   and property transferred pursuant to section 3 hereof, as were vested in or transferred or delegated to   by the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended,   of  , Executive Order 9095 of  , as amended, Executive Order 9141 of  , and Executive Order 9725 of  . The Attorney General, or such officer or agency of   as he may designate, is authorized and directed to transfer to   all property or interests vested in or transferred to him which were located in the   at the time of such vesting or transfer, or by the proceeds thereof, subject, however, to such expenses as the Attorney General is authorized to charged against such property or proceeds. Such property or proceeds shall be administered and disposed of under the direction and control of   in accordance with law.

4.   shall, except as otherwise agreed to by the Secretary of  , consult with the Secretary of   before vesting any property or interest pursuant to this   order.

5. The Attorney General or such officer or agency of   as he may designate, is authorized and directed to transfer to   such personnel, records, files, furniture, equipment, and supplies as the Director of   may determine to be necessary for the performance of the functions hereby transferred, but the Administrator shall reimburse the Attorney General for the furniture, equipment, and supplies so transferred.

6.  , to the extent permitted by law, is authorized to pay of out of any funds or property or interested vested in him or transferred to him all necessary expense of   in the performance of the functions hereby transferred: Provided, however, that   shall submit to the Director of   at such time or times and in such form as the Director shall require, an estimate of general administrative expenses for the remainder of  , and no general administrative expenses authorized to be paid pursuant to this order shall be incurred or paid by   in excess of the amounts approved by   upon submissions as herein required. All expenses for  , in addition, be reported to the   as early as practicable, with a request for ratification thereof; and no general administrative expense shall be incurred or paid by   after  , except pursuant to a further   authorization by the  .

7. Paragraph 5 of Executive Order   (7F.R.  ) is amended to the extent that it requires that litigation under the Trading with the Enemy Act of  , as amended, and   of  , instituted in the courts of the   Islands prior to  , be conducted under the supervision f the Attorney General. In any such litigation   may appear personally or though attorneys appointed by him.

8. No action taken by or on behalf of   or the Attorney General as his successor under Executive Order  , shall be challenged on the ground that it was within the jurisdiction of  .

9. This order supersedes Executive Order   of  , entitled "Establishing the Philippine Alien Property Administration and defining its functions."

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
