Executive Order  —Establishing   
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established in   of the President a commission to be known as  , which shall be composed of a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, and seven other members, all of whom shall be designated by the President.

2. (a) The   shall make a thorough study of the problem of providing for the internal security of   and at the same time protecting the rights and freedoms of individuals. The   shall consider how this problem should be met by Government action and by private action. Among other things, the   shall examine the laws, practices, and procedures concerning protection against treason, sabotage, espionage, and other matters affecting the internal security of the  ; and the   shall consider the operation of and any need for changes in such laws, practices, and procedures. The subjects considered by the   shall include the   employee loyalty program and the   employee security program. The   shall also consider the need for protecting individuals from unwarranted attacks and from unwarranted infringement of their rights and liberties in the name of security.

(b) The   shall make a report to the President of its findings and conclusions (to be preceded by such interim reports as it may find desirable), and shall make such recommendations for legislative, administrative, or other action as it deems appropriate.

3. In carrying out its functions under this order, the   shall prescribe its own rules of procedure. The   may hold such public hearings and hear such witnesses as it may determine, and it may, in connection with matters relating to Federal employees, examine any and all records and files relating to individual cases in possession of any executive department or agency. All executive departments and agencies of   are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   in its work and to furnish the   such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its functions. The   shall take appropriate measures to protect the security or confidential character of any security-classified information or information of a confidential nature submitted to it or examined by it.

4. The expenditures of the   shall be paid out of an allotment made by the President from the appropriation   of the President-Emergencies (National defense)". Such payments shall be made without regard to the provisions of (a) section 3681 of the Revised Statutes of   (31 U.S.C. 672), (b) section 9 of the act of  , 35 Stat.   (31 U.S.C. 673), and (c) such other laws as the President may hereafter specify.

5.   after the presentation of its final report to the President, the   shall cease to exist unless the President shall otherwise direct.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
