Executive Order 9682—Providing for   and Assistance to the Joint Anglo-american   in   and Europe
 
 

WHEREAS by an exchange of notes on  , between the Secretary of   of   and the   Ambassador there has been created a joint   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), whose terms of reference are as follows:

1. To examine political, economic and social conditions in   as they bear upon the problem of   immigration and settlement therein and the well-being of the peoples no living therein.

2. To examine the position of the   in those countries in Europe where they have been the victims of   and   persecution, and the practical measures taken or contemplated to be taken in those countries to enable them to live free from discrimination and oppression, and to make estimates of those who wish, or will be impelled by their conditions, to migrate to   or other countries outside Europe.

3. To hear the views of competent witnesses and to consult representative   and   on the problems of   as such problems are affected by conditions subject to examination under paragraphs 1 and 2 above and by other relevant facts and circumstances, and to make recommendations to   and of   for ad interim handling of these problems as well as for their permanent solution.

4. To make such other recommendations to   and of   as may be necessary to meet the immediate needs arising from conditions subject to examination under paragraph 2 above, by remedial action in the   countries in question or by the provision of facilities for emigration to and settlement in countries outside Europe;

AND WHEREAS the Government of   is desirous of rendering all possible aid to the   to enable it properly to perform the task entrusted to it:

NOW THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All departments, agencies, and independent establishments of the   branch of   shall furnish to the  , upon the request of the   Chairman of the  , such of their records and documents as relate to the subjects referred to the   for examination and study under its several terms of reference: Provided, however, that a department, agency, or independent establishment shall not be required to disclose confidential records and documents the disclosure of which would be prejudicial to the interests of  : Provided further, that in all such cases, the head of the department, agency, or independent establishment concerned shall furnish the   Chairman of the   with a statement justifying the withholding of the records and documents requested by him.

2. Any officer or employee of an Executive department, agency, or independent establishment of the Government possessing personal information or knowledge relating to the subjects referred to the   for examination and study under its several terms of reference, may, upon the request of the   Chairman of the   and with the approval of the head of the department, agency, or independent establishment concerned, furnish such information or knowledge to the   either orally or in writing as shall in each case appear to be desirable.

3. The Secretary of   may assign or detail officers and employees of  , including officers and employees of  , for service with the   member of the  .

4. The head of any department, agency, or independent establishment of the   may, upon request of the Secretary of  , detail or assign officers and employees of his department, agency, or independent establishment for service with the   members of the  .

5. The Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   are authorized to provide appropriate assistance including the furnishing of available Government-owned motor transportation and other Government-owned and operated facilities which can be spared to enable the   properly to perform the tasks entrusted to it.

6. The Secretary of   may, in order to effect the purposes of this order, and in conformity with existing law, delegate to one or more responsible officers of   the authority vested in him by this order.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
