Executive Order 9820—Segregation of the Function of the Housing Expediter From the Functions of  
 
 

Whereas an existing official of the  , namely,  , was appointed initially to serve as   within  ; and

Whereas the powers, functions and duties of   under the Veterans' Emergency Housing Act of   (approved  ) were merged with the powers, functions, and duties vested in   by Executive Order No. 9070 of  , the Lanham Act of  , and other statues, and have been exercised and performed through  ,  ; and

Whereas the Housing Expediter was recently appointed as an independent officer of the  , and it is necessary that his powers, functions, and duties be segregated so that they may be properly exercised and performed by him:

Now, Therefore, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the said  ' Emergency Housing Act of  , and as President of  , it is hereby ordered, in the interest of the internal management of the Government, as follows:

1. All the powers, functions, and duties of the housing Expediter under the Veteran's Emergency Housing Act of   which were merged with the powers, functions, and duties of   and exercised and performed through  ,  , are hereby segregated and shall be exercised and performed by the Housing Expediter as an independent officer of the Government.

2. All personnel (as determined by joint certification by   and  ) appointed or transferred to positions which were required for the functions, and duties of  , as segregated by paragraph 1 of this order, are hereby transferred to   for the exercise and performance of the powers, functions, and duties by   as an independent officer of the Government: Provided, That with respect to the heads of offices and branches and special assistants in positions allocated to grade   or grad CAF-15 who are engaged in the administration of functions of both the Housing Expediter and  , the transfer of any such personnel to   or their retention in   shall be determined by joint certification by such   and such Administrator. The joint certifications required by this section shall be made within   of the date of this order.

3. All assets contracts, and property including office equipment and records used or held in the administration, exercise, or performance of the powers, functions, and duties of  , as segregated by paragraph1 of this order, are hereby transferred to  .

4. So much of the unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds available to  ,  , for use in connection with the administration, exercise, or performance of the powers, functions, and duties of   (as segregated by section 1 of this order) as the Director of   shall determine shall be transferred to   for use in connection with the said powers, functions, and duties. In determining the amount of funds to be transferred, the Director of   may include an amount to provide for the liquidation of obligations incurred against such appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds prior to transfer.

5. All unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds transferred under this order shall be used only for the respective purposes and in the administration of the respective functions for which such funds were made available.

6. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of   to be necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this order shall be carried out in such manner as the Director of   may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
