Executive Order  — 
 
 

WHEREAS   has now substantially completed the performance of its policy-making functions,   is now vested with the major part of domestic surplus property disposal, and   is now vested with the major part of foreign surplus property disposal; and

WHEREAS, after a reasonable period in which to make necessary administrative arrangements, it will be feasible and desirable to establish a War Assets Administration as a separate agency directly responsible to the President to exercise consolidated functions relating to the disposal of domestic surplus property;

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and Statutes, including Title I of the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The functions of   and of   are hereby transferred, except as otherwise provided herein, to the chairman of the board of directors of  , and to  , respectively, and   shall be deemed merged into and consolidated with  .

2. All functions of   and   which relate to surplus property located outside the continental  ,  ,   (including  ),  , and   are transferred to the Secretary of   and  , respectively.

3. Effective  , (a) there shall be established, in   of the President, a War Assets Administrator, who shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the  , and who shall receive a salary at the rate of $12,000 per annum unless the   shall otherwise provide, and (b) the functions of   relative to surplus property and of the chairman of the board of directors of   relative to surplus property shall be transferred to  .

4. There shall be transferred to the agencies to which functions are transferred by this order so much as the Director of   shall determine to relate primarily to such functions, respectively, of the records, administrative property, personnel, and funds of  ,  ,  , and  . All authorizations, commitments, or other obligations incurred as a disposal agency by   or by   under the Surplus Property Act of   shall be transferred to   upon its establishment.

5. There shall be subject to the Classification Act of  , as amended, those positions transferred to   hereunder which are now subject to the said Act, and also all positions transferred to   hereunder; provided that if the salary of the incumbent of any position so transferred to the said   is above the maximum of the allocated grade such salary shall not be reduced so long as the position is held by the incumbent. The provisions of section 1 hereof notwithstanding, the respective accounting and fiscal procedures in effect with respect to the functions merged shall continue in effect from  .

6. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of   to be necessary to effectuate the transfers provided for in this order shall be carried out in such manner as the Director may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.

7. All provisions of prior Executive orders in conflict with this order are amended accordingly. All other prior orders, regulations, rulings, designations, and other actions, relating to any function transferred by this order, shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under proper authority.

8. Nothing in this order shall affect the provisions of section 101 (c) of   of   (58 Stat. 785), or of section 10 (b) of the Surplus Property Act of   (58 Stat. 766).

9. The provisions of this order shall, except as otherwise herein specifically provided, be effective as of the opening of business  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
