Executive Order  —Establishing the President's   in the Armed Services
 
 

WHEREAS it is essential that there be maintained in the armed services of   the highest standards of democracy, with equality of treatment and opportunity for all those who serve in our country's defense:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , by the Constitution and the statutes of  , and as Commander in Chief of the armed services, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the President that there shall be equality of treatment and opportunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to race, color, religion or national origin. This policy shall be put into effect as rapidly as possible, having due regard to the time required to effectuate any necessary changes without impairing efficiency or morale.

2. There shall be created in   an advisory committee to be known as   in  , which shall be composed of seven members to be designated by the President.

3. The   is authorized on behalf of the President to examine into the rules, procedures and practices of the armed services in order to determine in what respect such rules, procedures and practices may be altered or improved with a view to carrying out the policy of this order. The   shall confer and advise with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of  , and shall make such recommendations to the President and to said Secretaries as in the judgment of the   will effectuate the policy hereof.

4. All executive departments and agencies of   are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   in its work, and to furnish the   such information or the services of such persons as the   may require in the performance of its duties.

5. When requested by the   to do so, persons in the armed services or in any of the executive departments and agencies of the   shall testify before the committee and shall make available for the use of the   such documents and other information as the   may require.

6. The   shall continue to exist until such time as the President shall terminate its existence by Executive order.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 

Related Images

first page of  

second page of  
