Executive Order  —  and Authorizing the Director of   to   of the President Under   of 1948
 
 § 602.1 Definitions to govern. The definitions contained in section 16 of title I of   of   and the definitions contained in this part shall govern in the interpretation of  .

§ 602.2 Aliens. (a) The term "alien" means any person who is not a national of  .

(b) The term "national of  " means (1) a citizen of   or (2) a person who, though not a citizen of  , owes permanent allegiance to  .

§ 602.3 County. The word "county" includes, where applicable, counties, independent cities, and similar subdivisions, such as the independent cities of  , the parishes of  , and the towns of the New England States.

§ 602.4 Delinquent. A "delinquent" is a person required to be registered under the selective service law who fails or neglects to perform any duty required of him under the provisions of the selective service law.

§ 602.5 Governor. The word "Governor" includes, where applicable, the Governor of each of the States of  , the Governor of the Territory of  , the Governor of the Territory of Hawaii,   of  , the Governor of  , and the Governor of   of  .

§ 602.6 Inducted man. An "inducted man" is a man who has become a member of the armed forces through the operation of  .

§ 602.7 Induction station. The term "induction station" refers to any camp, post, ship, or station at which registrants who have been designated by a local board to fill a call are received by the military authorities and, if found acceptable, are inducted into military service.

§   service. The term "military service" includes service in the  ,  , the  , and  .

§  . Except as otherwise specifically provided, a "registrant" is a person registered under the selective service law.

§ 602.10 Selective service law. The term "selective service law" includes title I of   of   and all rules and regulations issued thereunder.

§ 602.11 State. The word "State" includes, where applicable, the several States of  ,  , the Territory of  , the Territory of Hawaii,  ,  , and   of  .

§ 602.12 Singular and plural. Words importing the singular number shall include the plural number, and words importing the plural number shall include the singular, except where the context clearly indicates otherwise.

PART 603-SELECTIVE SERVICE PERSONNEL IN GENERAL

Sec.

603.1 Citizenship

603.2 Voluntary services.

603.3   services.

603.4 Oath of office and other forms.

603.5 Termination of appointment.

603.6 Removal.

603.7  .

603.8  

§ 603.1 Citizenship. No person shall be appointed to any position, either compensated or uncompensated, in   who is not a citizen of  .

§ 603.2   services. Voluntary services in the administration of the selective service law may be accepted and should be encouraged.

§ 603.3 Uncompensated services. The services of registrars (except as the Director of   may otherwise provide), members of local boards, members of appeal boards, government appeal agents and associate government appeal agents, medical advisors to the local boards, medical advisors to  , advisors to registrants, interpreters, and all other persons volunteering their services to assist in the administration of the selective service law shall be uncompensated, and no such person serving without compensation shall accept remuneration from any source for services rendered in connection with selective service matters.

§ 603.4 Oath of office and other forms. (a) Every person who undertakes to render voluntary uncompensated service in the administration of the selective service law shall, before he enters upon his duties, execute an   and Waiver of Pay (SSS Form NO. 400).

(b) Every person who undertakes to render compensated service in the administration of the selective service law shall execute an oath of office in the form prescribed by  , Standard Form No. 61.

(c) Compensated and uncompensated personnel appointed for duty in   shall execute such other forms as are required by law, Executive order of the President, the regulations of  , or the Director of Selective Service.

(d) When executed in the manner hereinbefore provided,   and Waiver of Pay (SSS Form No. 400) and such other forms as may be required shall be filed in accordance with instructions issued by the Director of Selective Service.

§ 603.5 Termination of appointment. The appointment of any deputy, officer, agent, employee, or other person engaged in the administration of the selective service law, whether with or without compensation, may be terminated by resignation, death, or removal, or, in appropriate cases, by transfer or retirement.

§ 603.6 Removal. (a) Any person, other than a compensated civilian officer or employee, engaged in the administration of the selective service law may be removed by  . The Governor may recommend to the Director of Selective Service the removal, for cause, of any person engaged in the administration of the selective service law in his  . The Director of   shall make such investigation of the Governor's recommendation as he deems necessary and upon completion thereof shall take such action thereon as he deems proper.

(b) Any compensated civilian officer or employee engaged in the administration of the selective service law may be removed in accordance with the rules and regulations of  .

§ 603.7 Suspension. The Director of   may suspend any deputy, officer, agent, employee, or other person engaged in the administration of the selective service law, pending his consideration of the advisability of removing any such person. Suspensions of persons entitled to veterans' preference under the  ' Preference Act of  , as amended, shall be in accordance with the regulations prescribed by   pursuant to that Act. During the period that any such person is suspended, he shall be disqualified to act in his official capacity.

§ 603.8  . Vacancies may be filed in accordance with instructions issued by the Director of Selective Service.

PART 604-SELECTIVE SERVICE OFFICERS

NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec.

604.1 Director of  .

STATE ADMINISTRATION

604.11 Governor.

604.12   Director of  .

604.13   Director of   for  .

604.14 Staff of   Headquarters for Selective Service.

APPEAL  

604.21 Area.

604.22 Composition and appointment.

604.24 Jurisdiction.

MEDICAL ADVISORS TO THE STATE DIRECTORS OF SELECTIVE SERVICE

604.31 Medical advisors to  .

ADVISORS TO REGISTRANTS

604.41 Appointment and duties

LOCAL BOARDS

604.51 Area.

604.52 Composition and appointment.

604.54  

604.61 Medical advisors to the local boards

GOVERNMENT APPEAL AGENTS

604.71 Appointment and duties.

 § 604.1 Director of  . The Director of   shall be responsible directly to the President. The Director of   is hereby authorized and directed:

(a) To prescribe such rules and regulations as he shall deem necessary for the administration of  , the conduct of its officers and employees, the distribution and performance of its business, and the custody, use, and preservation of its records, papers, and property.

(b) To issue such public notices, orders, and instructions as shall be necessary for carrying out the functions of  .

(c) To obligate and authorize expenditures from funds appropriated for carrying out the functions of  .

(d) To appoint, and to fix, in accordance with the Classification Act of  , as amended, so far as applicable, the compensation of, such officers, agents, and employees as shall be necessary for carrying out the functions of  .

(e) To procure such space as he may deem necessary for carrying out the functions of   by lease pursuant to existing statutes except that the provisions of the act of   (47 Stat. 412), as amended by section 15 of the act of   (47 Stat.  ; 40 U.S.C. 278a), shall not apply to any lease so entered into.

(f) To perform such other duties as shall be required of him under the selective service law or which may be delegated to him by the President.

(g) To delegate any of his authority to such officers, agents, or persons as he may designate, and to provide for the subdelegation of any such authority.

STATE ADMINISTRATION

§ 604.11 Governor. The Governor of each   is authorized to recommend a person to be appointed by the President as   Director of   for his  , who shall represent the Governor in all selective service matters.

§ 604.12 State Director of  . Subject to the direction and control of the Director of  , the   Director of   for each   shall be in immediate charge of   and shall be responsible for carrying out the functions of   in his  .   shall be an office of record for selective service operations only, and no records other than selective service records shall be maintained in such office.

§ 604.13   Director of   for  . The Governor of   is authorized to recommend a person to be appointed by the President s State Director of   for  , who shall represent the Governor in all selective service matters within  .,   to the direction and control of the Director of  , the   Director of   for  , if so appointed, shall be in immediate charge of   for   and shall be responsible for carrying out the functions of   within  . If a   Director of   for   be so appointed, the   Director of   service for   shall have no jurisdiction in selective service matters within  .   for   shall be an office of record for selective service operations only, and no records other than selective service records shall be maintained in such office.

§ 604.14 Staff of   Headquarters for Selective Service. (a) Subject to applicable law and within the limits of available funds the staff of each State Headquarters for Selective Service shall consist of as many officers, either military or civilian, as shall be authorized by the Director of Selective Service.

(b) In accordance with limitations imposed by the Director of  , the   Director of   is authorized to appoint such civilian personnel as he considers are required in the operation of  .

APPEAL BOARDS

§ 604.21 Area. Each   Director of   shall establish one appeal board area which shall comprise the entire  , except if a Director of   for   is appointed one appeal board area shall be established for the entire   excepting  , and an additional appeal board area shall be established for  .

§ 604.22 Composition and appointment. For each appeal board area an appeal board, normally of five members, shall be appointed by the President, upon recommendation of the Governor. The members shall be male citizens of   who are not members of the armed forces or any reserve component thereof; they shall be residents of the area in which their board is appointed; and they shall be  . The appeal board should be a composite board, representative of the activities of its area, and as such should include one member from labor, one member from industry, one physician, one lawyer, and, where applicable, one member from agriculture. If the number of appeals sent to the board becomes too great for the board to handle without undue delay, additional panels of five members similarly constituted shall be appointed to the board by the President, upon recommendation of the Governor. Each such panel shall have full authority to act on all cases assigned to it. Each panel shall act separately. The   Director of   shall coordinate the work of all the panels to effect an equitable distribution of the work load.

§ 604.24 Jurisdiction. The appeal board shall have jurisdiction to review and to affirm or change any decision appealed to it from any local board in its area or any decision appealed from any local board not in its area when such appeal is either transferred to it in the manner provided in these regulations, or is appealed to it by or on behalf of any registrant whose principal place of employment is located in its area or submitted to it in the manner required by law.

MEDICAL ADVISORS TO THE STATE DIRECTORS OF SELECTIVE SERVICE

§ 604.41 Appointment and duties. Advisors to registrants shall be appointed by the director of   upon recommendation of the   Director of   to advise and assist registrants in the preparation of questionnaires and other selective service forms and to advise registrants on other matters relating to their liabilities under the selective service law. Every person so appointed should be  . The names and addresses of advisors to registrants within the local board area shall be conspicuously posted in the local board office.

LOCAL BOARDS

§ 604.51 Areas. The   Director of   for each   shall divide his   into local board areas. Normally, no such area should have a population exceeding 100,000. There shall be at least one separate local board area in each county; provided, that an intercounty local board may be established for an area not exceeding five counties within a   when the Director of   determines after considering the public interest involved and the recommendation of the Governor that the establishment of such local board area will result in a more efficient and economical operation.

§ 604.52 Composition and appointment. (a) A local board of three or more members shall be appointed for each local board area by the President upon recommendation of the Governor.

(b) A local board of three or more members, with at least one member from each county included within the intercounty local board area, shall be appointed for each intercounty local board area by the President upon recommendation of the Governor.

(c) The members of local boards shall be male citizens of   who shall be residents of a county in which their local board has jurisdiction and who shall also, if at all practicable, be residents of the area in which their local board has jurisdiction. No member of a local board shall be a member of the armed forces or any reserve component thereof. Members of local boards shall be  .

§ 604.54 Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of each local board shall extend to all persons registered in, or subject to registration in, the area for which it was appointed. It shall have full authority to do and perform all acts within its jurisdiction authorized by the selection service law.

MEDICAL ADVISORS TO THE LOCAL BOARDS

§ 604.61 Medical advisors to the local boards. The President may appoint for each local board, from qualified physicians recommended by the Governor, one or more medical advisors to advise the local board regarding the physical and mental condition of its registrants. The   Director of   may authorize any duly appointed medical advisor to a local board to perform such functions for any local board within the  .

GOVERNMENT APPEAL AGENTS

§ 604.71 Appointment and duties. (a) For each local board a government appeal agent shall be appointed by the President upon recommendation of the Governor.

(b) One or more associate government appeal agents may be appointed by the President for each local board when either the government appeal agent appointed for that board or the local board requests such assistance and the Governor, being of the opinion that the circumstances warrant such action, recommends appointment. Whenever an intercounty local board is established an associate government appeal agent shall be appointed by the President, upon recommendation of the Governor, for each county included within the local board area.

(c) Each government appeal agent and associate government appeal agent shall, whenever possible, be a person with legal training and experience and shall not be a member of the armed forces or any reserve component thereof.

(d) It shall be the duty of the government appeal agent and in his absence or inability to act or at his direction, the duty of the associate government appeal agent:

(1) To expeditiously examine the records of registrants who have been classified by the local board in order that appeals to the appeal board, when found necessary, may be filed within the time limit specified by the regulations, and to appeal, as prescribed by the regulations, from any classification by a local board which, in his opinion, should be reviewed by the appeal board.

(2) To attend such local board meetings as the local board may request him to attend.

(3) To suggest to the local board a reopening of any case where the interests of justice, in his opinion, require such action and to submit to the local board, with such suggestion, the information obtained by his investigation of the case which has caused him to arrive at his decision that the case should be reconsidered.

(4) To render such assistance to the local board as it may request by advising the members and interpreting for them laws, regulations, and other directives.

(5) To be equally diligent in protecting the interests of the Government and the rights of the registrant in all matters.

PART 606-GENERAL ADMINISTRATION

SELECTIVE SERVICE FORMS

Sec.

606.51 Forms made part of regulations.

SELECTIVE SERVICE FORMS

§ 606.51 Forms made part of regulations. (a) All forms and revisions thereof referred to in these or any new or additional regulations, or in any amendment to these or such new or additional regulations, and all forms and revisions thereof prescribed by the Director of   shall be and become a part of these regulations in the same manner as if each form, each provision therein, and each revision thereof were set forth herein in full. Whenever in any form or in the instructions printed thereon, any person shall be instructed or required to perform any act in connection therewith, such person is hereby charged with the duty of promptly and completely complying with such instruction or requirement.

(b) The Director of  , as to such persons or agencies as he designates, may waive any requirement that any form be notarized or sworn to.

PART 609-EXPENDITURES OTHER THAN FOR PERSONAL SERVICES

EMERGENCY MEDICAL CARE, HOSPITALIZATION AND TRANSPORTATION AND BURIAL OF REMAINS

Sec.

609.51 Claims

EMERGENCY MEDICAL CARE, HOSPITALIZATION, AND TRANSPORTATION AND BURIAL OF REMAINS

§ 609.51 Claims. (a) Funds appropriated for the operation and maintenance of   shall be available for payment of actual and reasonable expenses of (1) emergency medical care, including hospitalization of registrants who suffer illness or injury, and (2) the transportation and burial of the remains of registrants who suffer death, while acting under orders issued by or under the authority of the Director of  , but the expenses of burial, including preparation of the body, shall not exceed $150 in any one case.

(b) The term "emergency medical care, including hospitalization" as used in this section shall be construed to mean such medical care or hospitalization that normally must be rendered promptly after occurrence of the illness or injury as a result of which it is required, and discharged by a physician or facility subsequent to such medical care or hospitalization shall prima facie terminate the period of emergency.

(c) the death of a registrant shall be deemed to have occurred while acting under orders issued by or under the authority of the Director of   if it results directly from an illness or injury suffered by the registrant while so acting and occurs prior to the completion of an emergency medical care, including hospitalization, occasioned by such illness or injury.

(d) Claims for payment of expenses incurred for the purposes set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall be presented to the   Director of   of the   in which the expenses were incurred, who shall determine whether the claim shall be allowed or disallowed, in whole or in part, subject to appeal within   to the Director of Selective Service.

(e) Payment of such claims when allowed shall be made only (1) directly to the person or facility with which the expenses were incurred, or (2) by reimbursement to the registrant, a relative of the registrant, or the legal representative of the registrant's estate, for original payment of such expenses.

(f) No such claim shall be paid unless it is presented within   from the date on which the expenses were incurred.

(g) No such claim shall be allowed in case it is determined that the cause of injury, illness, or death was due to negligence or misconduct of the registrant.

PART 611-DUTY AND RESPONSIBILITY TO REGISTER

Sec.

611.1 Duty to be registered.

611.2 Change of status.

611.3 Registration of men separated from armed forces.

611.4 Registration of certain persons entering  .

611.5 Inmate of institution

611.6 Responsibility for performance of duty.

§ 611.1 Duty to be registered. (a) Section 3 of title I of   of   requiring certain persons to present themselves for and submit to registration reads as follows:

Except as otherwise provided in this title, it shall be the duty of every male citizen of  , and every other male person residing in  , who, on   fixed for the first or any subsequent registration, is   and twenty-six, to present himself for and submit to registration at such time or times and place or places, and in such manner, as shall be determined by proclamation of the President and by rules and regulations prescribed hereunder.

(b) Section 6(a) of title I of   of   providing that certain persons are not required to be registered so long as they have a certain status reads as follows:

  officers, warrant officers, pay clerks, enlisted men, and aviation cadets of  , the  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  ; cadets,  ; midshipmen,  ; cadets,  ; members of the reserve components of the armed forces,  , and  , while on active duty; and foreign diplomatic representatives, technical attaches of foreign embassies and legations, consults general, consuls, vice consuls, and other consular agents of foreign countries who are not citizens of  , and members of their families, and persons in other categories to be specified by the President, residing in  , and who have not declared their intention to become citizens of  , shall not be required to be registered under section 3 and shall be relieved from liability for training and service under section 4(b).

(c) On   and between the hours fixed for registration by Presidential proclamation, every man required to do so under the foregoing provisions shall present himself for and submit to registration before a duly designated registration official or the local board having jurisdiction in the area in which he has his permanent home or in which he may happen to be on   or any of  .

§ 611.2 Change of status. Except as otherwise provided in section 611.3 of this part, every man who would have been required to be registered on   or one of the days fixed for registration by Presidential proclamation except for the fact that he was in one of the groups mentioned in section 6(a) of title I of   of  , shall be required, under the provisions of section 6(k) of title I of   of   to present himself for and submit to registration before a local board when a change in his status removes him from such group.

§ 611.3 Registration of men separated from armed forces. Every man who (a) has been separated from active service in the armed forces,  ,  , or  , (b) has not been registered prior to such separation, and (c) would have been required to be registered except for the fact that he was in such active service on   fixed for his registration by Presidential proclamation, shall present himself for and submit to registration before a local board within     following the date on which he was so separated.

§ 611.4 Registration of certain persons entering  . (a) Every male person who would have been required to register on any day or days fixed for registration by Presidential proclamation had he been within   and who thereafter enters   shall present himself for and submit to registration before a local board within   following the date on which he enters  .

(b) Every male person, other than a person referred to in paragraph (a) of this section and a person exempted from registration by section 6(a) of title I of   of  , who enters   subsequent to   fixed by Presidential proclamation for the registration of persons of his age, shall present himself for and submit to registration before a local board within     following the date on which he enters  .

§ 611.5 Inmate of institution. Unless he has already been registered, every person subject to registration who is an inmate of an insane asylum, jail, penitentiary, reformatory, or similar institution shall be registered on   he leaves the institution.

§ 611.6 Responsibility for performance of duty. (a) Every person subject to registration is required to familiarize himself with the rules and regulations governing registration and to comply therewith.

(b) Every person is deemed to have notice of the requirements of title I of   of   and of the rules and regulations prescribed thereunder upon the publication by the President of a proclamation or other public notice fixing a time for registration.

(c) Every person who, on   or one of the days fixed for registration, is required to be registered is personally charged with the duty of presenting himself before the proper officials and submitting to registration.

(d) The duty of every person subject to registration to present himself for and submit to registration shall continue at all times, and if for any reason any such person is not registered on   or one of the days fixed for his registration, he shall immediately present himself for and submit to registration before the local board in the area where he happens to be.

(e) Persons required to present themselves for and submit to registration shall not be paid for performing such obligation nor shall they be paid travel allowances or expenses.

PART 612-REGISTRATION DUTIES

NATIONAL DUTIES

Sec.

612.1 Responsibility of Director of  .

NATIONAL DUTIES

§ 612.1 Responsibility of Director of  . Whenever the President by proclamation or other public notice fixes   days for registration, the Director of   shall take the necessary steps to prepare for registration and, on   fixed, shall supervise the registration of those persons required to present themselves for and submit to registration. The Director of   shall also arrange for and supervise the registration of persons who present themselves for registration at times other than on   fixed for any registration.

PART 617-REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE

Sec. 617.1 Effect of failure to have   in personal possession.

IN GENERAL

§ 617.1 Effect of failure to have Registration certificate in personal possession. Every person required to present himself for and submit to registration must have a Registration Certificate (SSS Form No. 2) in his personal possession at all times. The failure of any person to have such Registration Certificate (SSS Form No. 2) in his personal possession shall be prima facie evidence of his failure to register.

2. The Director of   is hereby authorized to appoint, and to fix, in accordance with the Classification Act of  , as amended, the compensation of,   and to appoint members of local boards, members of appeal boards, medical advisors to  , medical advisors to the local boards, government appeal agents, and associate government appeal agents provided for in Part 604, Selective Service Regulations.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
