Executive Order 10374—Enlarging the   and  ,  
 
 

WHEREAS   has acquired through exchange under the authority of Title III of   Tenant Act (50 Stat. 525), as amended (7 U.S.C.  ), certain lands lying within the present boundaries of   and  , in  ; and it is contemplated that   will from time to time hereafter acquire through exchange under the said authority additional lands lying within the present boundaries of the said forests; and

WHEREAS   has also acquired through exchange under the authority of the said Title III, as amended, or the act of  , 36 Stat. 963, as amended, certain lands adjacent to or in an area adjacent to the said forests; and it is contemplated that   will from time to time hereafter acquire through exchange under the said authority additional lands lying within the said area; and

WHEREAS certain of the public lands which were reserved for lighthouse purposes, by Executive order of  , and which have been declared surplus to the needs of   and transferred to   for the use of  , are adjacent to   and;

WHEREAS it appears that the above-described lands are suitable for national-forest purposes and that it would be in the public interest to reserve such lands as parts of   or  , as hereinafter indicated:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 24 of the act of  , 26 Stat.   (16 U.S.C. 471), section 1 of the act of  , 30 Stat.  ,   (16 U.S.C. 473), and section 11 of the act of  , 36  . 963 (16 U.S.C. 521), and as President of  , and upon the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. All lands within the present boundaries of the   and   which have been acquired by   through exchange under the authority of Title III of the  -head   Tenant Act, as amended, are hereby added to and reserved as parts of the respective national forests within which they are situated; and all such lands hereafter acquired by   in the manner and under the authority stated shall likewise be added to and reserved as parts of the said forest immediately upon acquisition of title thereto by  .

 . 2. The following-described land, which has been acquired by   under the authority of the said act of  , as amended, and which is adjacent to  , is hereby added to and reserved as a part of the said forest:

FOURTH PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN

Beginning at the northwest corner of  . 3, T. 38 N.,   11 E., thence by metes and bounds:

East, 160 feet, approximately, to the shore line of Laurel Lake.

Southwesterly, along shore line of Laurel Lake to intersection of the west boundary line of  . 3.

North, along west boundary line of  . 3, to point of beginning.

The tract described contains approximately 0.75 acre.

 . 3 The exterior boundaries of   are hereby extended to include the following-described area, and all lands within such area which have been acquired by   of   Tenant Act, as amended, or the said act of  , as amended, are herby added to land reserved as parts of  ; and all such lands hereafter acquired by   under such authority shall likewise be added to and reserved as parts of the said forest immediately upon acquisition of title thereto by  .

FOURTH PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN

T. 47 N.,   6 W.,

 . 2,  . 3,  . 4, S½

Secs. 8 and 17.

 . 12,  , and 24

The tract described contains approximately 4,160 acres.

 . 4 Except as to the following-described lands and right-of-way, all public lands in fractional section 7, T. 52 N.,   and fractional section 12. T. 52 N., R.5 W., Fourth Principal Meridian,  , aggregating approximately 109 acres, which were reserved for lighthouse purposes by Executive order of  , and hereby added to and reserved as parts of  ; and the said Executive order of  , is hereby revoked so far as it affects such lands:

TRACT NO. 1

Beginning at a point on the west shore of Sand Island in lot 1,  . 12, T. 52 N., R. 5 W., from which a point on the shore line intersected by a line extended due west from the center of old light tower which is attached to a dwelling, bears south 15 feet; thence due east, approximately 530 feet to the east shore line of lot 1; thence northwesterly, westerly and southwesterly along the shore line of lot 1 to point of beginning. This tract contains approximately 1.03 acres.

TRACT NO. 2

Beginning at a point on the west shore of lot 2,  . 12, T. 52 N., R. 5 W., from which a point on the south boundary of lot 1, section 12 is due north approximately 530 feet, and from which the present boathouse bears north 100 feet, thence by metes and bounds:

East 200 feet

North 200 feet

West 340 feet, approximately to shore line,

Southerly along shore line to point of beginning.

This tract contains approximately 0.9.2 acre.

RIGHT-OF-WAY

A right-of-way 25 feet in  , connecting Tracts  . 1 and 2, described above, the center line of which is described as follows:

Beginning at a point on the north boundary of Tract No. 2, from which the northeast corner of said tract bears east approximately 160 feet; thence on an approximate bearing and distance of N. 1' 30" E., 1320 feet to the south boundary of  . No.1.

 . 5. All lands to which this order is applicable which have been or may hereafter be acquired under authority of the said Title III of   Tenant Act, as amended, shall be administered under the laws, rules, and regulations applicable to national-forest lands acquired under the said act of  , as amended.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
