Executive Order  —Transfer of   from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the Interior
 
 

WHEREAS   (hereinafter referred to as the trust territory) was placed under the trusteeship system established by the Charter of the United Nations by means of a trusteeship agreement approved by   on  , and by   on  , after due constitutional process; and

WHEREAS  , under the terms of the trusteeship agreement, was designated as the administering authority of the trust territory, and has assumed obligations for the government thereof; and

WHEREAS Executive Order No. 9875 of  , delegated authority and responsibility for the civil administration of the trust territory to the Secretary of the   on an interim basis; and

WHEREAS a committee of the Secretaries of State, War, the  , and the   recommended on  , that administrative responsibility for the trust territory be transferred to a civilian agency of the Government at the earliest practicable date; and

WHEREAS plans for the orderly transfer of administrative responsibility for the trust territory from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the   are embodied in a memorandum of understanding between   and  , approved by me on  , and it is the view of the two departments, as expressed in that memorandum, that such transfer should take effect on  ; and

WHEREAS the transfer of administration of the trust territory from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the  , effective  , appears to be in the public interest:

NOW THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. The administration of the trust territory is hereby transferred from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the  , such transfer to become effective on  .

2.   and   shall proceed with the plans for the transfer of administration of the trust territory as embodied in the above-mentioned memorandum of understanding between the two departments.

3. When the transfer of administration made by this order becomes effective, the Secretary of the   shall take such action as may be necessary and appropriate, and in harmony with applicable law, for the administration of civil government in the trust territory and shall, subject to such policies as the President may from time to time prescribe and, when appropriate, in collaboration with other departments or agencies of the Government, carry out the obligations assumed by   as the administering authority of the trust territory under the terms of the trusteeship agreement approved by   on  , and under the Charter of the United Nations: Provided, however, That the authority to specify parts or all of the trust territory as closed for security reasons and to determine the extent to which   and 88 of the Charter of the   shall be applicable to such closed areas, in accordance with Article 13 of the trusteeship agreement, shall be exercised by the President: And provided further, That the Secretary of the   shall keep the Secretary of   currently informed of activities in the trust territory affecting the foreign policy of   and shall consult the Secretary of   on questions of policy concerning the trust territory which relate to the foreign policy of  , and that all relations between departments or agencies of the   and appropriate organs of   with respect to the trust territory shall be conducted through the Secretary of  .

4. The executive departments and agencies of the Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with   and   in the effectuation of the provisions of this order.

5. The said Executive Order No. 9875 of  , is revoked, effective  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
