Executive Order 10358— 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. This order shall apply to all executive department, independent agencies, and Government-owned or Government-controlled corporations, including their field services.

 . 2. As used in this order:

(a) "Holiday" means  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or any other calendar day designated as a holiday by   statute or Executive order.

(b) "Workday" means those hours which comprise in sequence the employee's regular daily tour of duty within any 24-hour period, whether falling entirely within one calendar day or not.

 . 3. Whenever a holiday falls on a  , Federal offices and establishments shall be closed to public business on the following  .

 . 4. (a) Any employee whose basic   does not include   and who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday falling within his basic   shall be excused from work on   of his basic   whenever a holiday falls on  .

(b) Any employee whose basic   includes   and who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday falling within his basic   shall be excused from work on   of his basic   whenever a holiday falls on   that has been administratively scheduled as his "regular"   non-workday in lieu of  .

 . 5. Any employee who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday falling within his basic   shall be excused from work on   of his basic   whenever   or  , or any other holiday which always occurs on   of the calendar week (other than  ), falls on   outside the employee's regular basic workweek.

 . 6. Any employee whose workday covers portions of   and who would, except for this section, ordinarily be excused from work scheduled for the hours of any calendar day on which a holiday falls, shall instead be excused from work on his entire workday which commences on any such calendar day.

 . 7. In administering the provisions of law relating to pay and leave of absence, the workdays referred to in sections 4,  , and 6 shall be treated as holidays in lieu of the corresponding calendar holidays.

 . 8. This order shall become effective   after the date hereof, and shall supersede Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Observance by Government Agencies of Holidays Falling on Sundays".

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
