Executive Order 9562—Termination of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.   (hereinafter referred to as the Office), established by Executive Order No. 8757 of  , is terminated. The functions of the Office and of the Director thereof are abolished, except to the extent that they are transferred by this order. The property, the records, and personnel of the Office are transferred as hereinafter indicated.

2. All protective property of the  , acquired under the act of  , 56 Stat. 19, the act of  , 56 Stat. 98, or otherwise, is transferred to  . All functions heretofore vested in the Office or in the Director thereof incident to the storage, care, transportation, inspection, and disposition of such property are transferred to the Secretary of  , and shall be exercised by him in consonance with the Surplus Property Act of   and the regulations and designations of   under that Act. The Secretary may carry out such functions through such agencies and personnel of   as he shall designate. So much of the personnel, records, and other property of the Office as the Director of   shall determine to be necessary for carrying out the purposes of this paragraph shall be transferred to  .

3. The Secretary of the  , acting through   and such personnel of   as he shall designate, shall, except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 hereof, wind up the affairs of the Office. This shall include, but not be limited to, the separation of any excess personnel of the Office from the service; the liquidation of obligations incurred by the   under its appropriations; the maintenance of expired appropriation accounts of the Office; the handling of residual pay-roll matters of the  , including final payments to employees and action required with respect to bonds under the pay-roll deduction plan, withheld taxes, and retirement accounts; the effecting of collections and disposition of special deposit accounts relating to the  ; the clearance of post-audit exceptions and claims of the  ; and the disposition of such records of the Office as relate to the said affairs. All functions of the Office and of the Director thereof which are necessary to the effectuation of the provisions of this paragraph are transferred to the Secretary of the  . So much of the funds, records, and property of the Office as the Director of   shall determine, shall be transferred to   for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this paragraph.

4. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of   to be necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this order shall be carried out in such manner as the Director may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.

5. All prior Executive orders which are in conflict with this order are amended to the extent of such conflict.

6. This order shall become effective at the close of business  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
