Executive Order  —Amending Executive Order No.  , as Amended, with   to Certain Plant Fibers
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including the Defense Production Act of   as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Sections 303, 307, 310(b), and 311(b) of Executive Order No.   of   (15  ), as amended, are hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:

" . 303.   is hereby authorized and directed to purchase and make commitments to purchase metals, minerals, and other materials, for Government use or resale, as authorized by and subject to the provisions of section 303 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended: Provided, That the Secretary of   may also exercise the said functions under section 303 of the said Act, as amended, with respect to food, and with respect to plant fibers (except abaca) not included in the definition of food to the extent that the procurement of such fibers involves the encouragement and development of sources of supply within   and its Territories and possessions."

" . 307. The functions conferred upon   by sections 303 to 306 inclusive, of this   order shall be carried out in accordance with programs certified to the said Administrator by   Provided, That any exercise by   of the functions provided for in section 303 hereof with respect to food shall be carried out in accordance with programs certified to him by the Secretary of Agriculture: And provided further, That the functions conferred upon the Secretary of Agriculture by section 303 hereof with respect to plant fibers (except abaca) not included in the definition of food shall be carried out in accordance with programs certified to the Secretary by  .

" . 310. * * *

"(b) Loans under section 310(a) hereof (1) shall be made upon such terms and conditions as the   shall determine, (2) shall be made only after the   has determined in each instance that financial assistance is not available on reasonable terms from private sources or from other governmental sources, and (3) except in the case of working capital loans (involving no more than minor expansion of capacity which is incidental to a loan for working capital) shall be made only upon certificate of essentiality of the loan, which certificate shall be made (a) by the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to food and food facilities, and with respect to plant fibers (except abaca) not included in the definition of food, and facilities therefore, in instances involving the encouragement and development of sources of supply of such fibers within   and the Territories and possessions and to the extent that such loans are a part of and in accordance with the terms of a program certified by   pursuant to section 307 hereof, and (b) by   with respect to all other materials and facilities."

" . 311. * * *

"(b) Loans under section 311(a) hereof (1) shall be made upon such terms and conditions as the said   shall determine, (2) shall be made only after the   has determined in each instance that financial assistance is not available on reasonable terms from private sources and that the loan involved cannot be made under the provisions of and from funds available to the   under the Export-Import Bank Act of  , as amended, and (3) shall be made only upon certificate of essentiality of the loan, which certificate shall be made (a) by the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to food and food facilities, and with respect to plant fibers (except abaca) not included in the definition of food, and facilities therefore, in instances involving the encouragement and development of sources of supply of such fibers within   and its Territories and possessions and to the extent that such loans are a part of an in accordance with the terms of a program certified by   pursuant to section 307 hereof, and (b) by   with respect to all other materials and facilities."

 . 2. To the extent that provisions of any prior Executive order are inconsistent with the provisions of this order this order shall prevail, and any such prior provisions are amended accordingly. All orders, regulations, rulings, certificates, directives, and other actions relating to any function affected by this order shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended, modified, or revoked under proper authority.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
