Executive Order  —Transfer of   from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the Interior
 
 

WHEREAS THE Island of Tutuila of the   group and all other islands of the group east of longitude 171 degrees west of  , known as  , were placed under the control of   by Executive Order No. 125-A of  ; and

WHEREAS the joint resolution of  , 45 Stat.  , provides that until the   shall provide for the government of such islands all civil, judicial, and military powers shall be vested in such person or persons and shall be exercised in such manner as the President of   may direct; and

WHEREAS a committee composed of the Secretaries of State, War, the  , and the   recommended on  , that administrative responsibility for   be transferred to a civilian agency of the Government at the earliest practicable date as determined by the President; and

WHEREAS plans for the orderly transfer of administrative responsibility for   from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the   are embodied in a memorandum of understanding between   and  , approved by me on  , and it is the view of the two departments, as expressed in that memorandum, that such transfer should take effect on or  ; and

WHEREAS the transfer of administration of   from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the  , effective  , appears to be in the public interest:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said joint resolution of  , and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. The administration of   is hereby transferred from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the  , such transfer to become effective on  .

2.   and   shall proceed with the plans for the transfer of administration of   as embodied in the above-mentioned memorandum of understanding between the two departments.

3. When the transfer of administration made by this order becomes effective, the Secretary of the   shall take such action as may be necessary and appropriate, and in harmony with applicable law, for the administration of civil government in  .

4. The executive departments and agencies of the Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with   and   in the effectuation of the provisions of this order.

5. The said Executive order of  , is revoked, effective  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
