Executive Order 9865—Providing for the Protection Abroad of Inventions Resulting from Research Financed by the Government
 
 

WHEREAS the Government of   now has and will hereafter acquire title to, or the right to file foreign patent applications for, numerous inventions arising out of scientific and technical research carried on by or for the  ; and

WHEREAS it is in the interest of   to acquire patent protection abroad on certain inventions resulting from government-financed research; and

WHEREAS it is in the interest of the Government to foster, promote, and develop the foreign commerce of  :

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and statutes, and as commander in Chief of the   and  , and in the interest of the foreign affairs functions of   and the internal management of the government, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All Government departments and agencies shall, whenever practicable, acquire the right to file foreign patent applications on inventions resulting from research conducted or financed by the Government.

2. All Government departments and agencies which have or may hereafter acquire title to inventions or the right to file patent applications abroad thereon, shall fully and continuously inform   concerning such inventions, except as provided in section 6 hereof, and shall make recommendations to   as to which of such inventions should receive patent protection by   abroad and the foreign jurisdictions in which such patent protection should be sought. The recommendations of such departments and agencies shall indicate the immediate or future industrial, commercial or other value of the invention concerned, including its value to public health.

3.   shall determine whether, and in what foreign jurisdictions,   should seek patents for such inventions and, to the extent of appropriations available therefor, shall procure patent protection for such inventions, taking all action, consistent with existing law, necessary to acquire and maintain patent rights abroad. Such determinations of the said   shall be made after full consultation with   industry and commerce, with  , and with other Government agencies familiar with the technical, scientific, industrial, commercial or other economic or social factors affecting the invention involved, and after consideration of the availability of valid patent protection in the countries determined to be immediate or potential markets for, or producers of, products, processes, or services covered by or relating to the invention.

4.   shall administer foreign patents acquired by   under the terms of this order and shall issue licenses thereunder in accordance with law under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of   shall prescribe. Nationals of   shall be granted licenses on a nonexclusive royalty free basis except in such cases as the Secretary shall determine and proclaim it to be consistent with the public interest to issue such licenses on a nonexclusive royalty free basis.

5.  , in consultation with  , shall negotiate arrangements among governments under which each government and its nationals shall have access to the foreign patents of the other participating governments. Patents relating to matters of public health may be licensed by the Secretary of  , with the approval of the Secretary of  , to any country or its nationals upon such terms and conditions as are in accordance with law and as the Secretary of   determines to be appropriate, regardless of whether such country is a part to the arrangements provided for in this section.

6. There shall be exempted from the provisions of this order (a) all inventions within the jurisdiction of   except in such cases as the said   specifically authorizes the inclusion of an invention under the terms of this order; and (b) all other inventions officially classified as secret or confidential for reasons of the national security. Nothing in this order shall supersede the declassification policies and procedures established by Executive Orders No. 9568 of June 8, 1945,   of  , and   of  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
