Executive Order  —Revoking in Part Executive Orders No. 589 of  , and No.   of   
 

WHEREAS Executive Order No. 589 of  , recited in part that passports issued by   to   or   citizens who were skilled or unskilled laborers to go to  ,  , or   were being used for the purpose of enabling the holders thereof to come to the continental territory of   to the detriment of labor conditions therein, and ordered that such citizens of   or   be refused permission to enter the   territory of  ; and

WHEREAS Executive Order No.   of  , recited that passports issued by certain foreign governments to their citizens or subjects, skilled or unskilled laborers, to go to countries or places other than the continental territory of   were being used for the purpose of enabling the holders thereof to come to the continental territory of  ; and

WHEREAS the continued restraint imposed by the said Executive orders upon the freedom of   or   citizens or subjects who entered the Territory of   under the passports referred to above to come to the continental   has resulted in considerable personal hardship to such persons; and

WHEREAS the number of   or   citizens or subjects thus prohibited from entering the continental   from the Territory of   is so small, and the age of such persons is so advanced, that their entry into the continental   would no longer be a detriment to labor conditions therein:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 3 of the Immigration Act of   (39 Stat. 875; 8 U.S.C. 136), I hereby revoke the said Executive Orders No. 589 of  , and No.   of  , to the extent that they are applicable to   or   citizens or subjects who entered the Territory of   under the aforesaid passports and who are now precluded from legally entering or remaining in the continental territory of   by reason of such Executive orders.

  is hereby authorized and directed, with the approval of the Attorney General, to take such action and to issue such rules and regulations as may be necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
