Executive Order  —    to the Veterans' Emergency Housing Program in   
 

WHEREAS  ,  , approved  , provides that   in   shall be entirely liquidated not  ; and

WHEREAS   is now exercising and performing certain functions, duties, and powers with respect to the Veterans' Emergency Housing Program; and

WHEREAS IT ISNECESSARY THAT THE Veterans' Emergency Housing Program continue without impairment

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statues, including Title I of the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), and Title III of the Second War Powers Act,  , as amended (56 Stat. 177,   Stat. 827, 59 Stat. 658, Public Law 475 approved  ), and as President of  , it is hereby order, in the interest of the internal management of the Government and to provide continuity for the Veterans' Emergency Housing Program, as follows:

1. All functions, duties and powers of   and   with respect to the Veterans' Emergency Housing Program which have heretofore been administered by   in   are hereby transferred to the Housing Expediter.

2. To the extent necessary for the proper exercise of the function, duties and powers transferred to him by paragraph 1 of this order, the Housing Expediter may exercise the powers and authority vested in the President by said Title III of the Second War Powers Act,  , as amended.

3. The functions, duties, powers, and authority vested in   by this order shall be exercised and performed by him or, subject to his discretion and control, by such personnel of   as   may designate.

4. So much of the personnel of   engaged primarily in the administration of the said functions, duties, and powers, and so much of the property and records of such office used in such administration, as the Temporary Controls Administrator and   shall jointly determine to be in the public interest and consistent with the pertinent legislation shall be transferred to   for use in connection with such functions, duties and powers.

5. There may be transferred or otherwise made available to  , for use in connection with the functions, duties, and powers vested in   by this order, any funds available to   which the Director of   shall determine (a) to relate primarily to such functions, duties, and powers, (b) to be not needed for the liquidation of  , and (c) to be properly transferable under pertinent legislation.

6. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of   to be necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this order shall be carried out in such manner as the   may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.

7. All prior Executive orders, proclamations, or parts thereof in conflict with this order are amended accordingly. All other prior orders, rules, regulations, directives, and other similar instruments issued prior to the effective date of this order by any Federal agency and relating to any functions, duties, powers, or authority vested in   by this order shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under property authority.

8. This order shall become effective on  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
