Executive Order 9935—Directing the Transfer of Certain Vessels to   
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including the Trading with the Enemy Act of   (40 Stat. 411), as amended, and the act of  , Public Law 370, 80th  , 1st Session, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Attorney General and   are authorized and directed to transfer to   all right, title, interest, and possession of  , the Attorney General, or   in the following vessels, which were under   registry and flag on   (ex. LACONIA)

GALLANT   (ex. GUIAN)

GOLD HEELS (ex.  )

HERMITAGE (ex.  )

LOWLANDER (ex. LEME)

  (ex. MAR GLAUCO)

TROUBADOR (ex.  )

TYPHOON (ex. COLORADO)

WHITE CLOVER (ex. MONFIORE)

ALCIBIADES (ex. IOLE FASSIO)

FAIRENO (ex. DENTICE)

Malvern (ex,.  )

  (ex. CONTE GRANDE)

SWIVEL (ex. BACICIN PADRE)

2.   is authorized an directed to designate 15 surplus Liberty ships and to transfer them to  , it having been determined by the   that 15   ships have a total tonnage approximately equal to the total tonnage of vessels under   registry and flag on  , and subsequently seized in   ports and thereafter lost while being employed in   war effort.

3. The above transfers shall be made pursuant to agreements to be executed by the Attorney General or   or both, as the case may require, acting on behalf of  , and by  , which agreements shall contain substantially the following provisions and such other provisions consistent with the act of  , as the Attorney General and  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall consider necessary and appropriate:

(a) No monetary compensation shall be paid for the use by   or its agencies of former   vessels acquired or seized by   after  .

(b) All costs incurred to return or transfer a vessel to   shall be borne or reimbursed by  .

(c)   shall agree to discharge and save harmless   from any responsibility and liability for the processing, settlement and satisfaction of any claims to or against the vessels so transferred or the lost vessels in respect of which substitute vessels are transferred.

(d) Prior to the removal of any vessel to be transferred from the custody, actual or constructive, of any court,   shall make or cause to be made arrangements, including the posting of a stipulation for value or other security in nature and amount satisfactory to such court, to secure the payment of any unpaid claims against the vessel.

(e) Of the 15 surplus Liberty ships designated for transfer to   shall retain such number as will constitute security for the payment of such sums of money as the Attorney General may determine sufficient for the processing, settlement and satisfaction of any claims not otherwise secured to or against the lost vessels in respect of which the substitute ships are being transferred.

(f) Delivery of the HERMITAGE (ex.  ) and   (ex.  ) pursuant to this order shall be without prejudice to any rights of  , under existing agency agreements with  , with respect to (1) accounting for revenues of such vessels accruing prior to the date of delivery of such vessels pursuant to this order, and (2) the operation of the SS SATURNIA and SS VULCANIA, or either, in accordance with existing agreements between   and  .

4. The   ships to be transferred to   shall be selected by  , in consultation with  , such vessels to be operated by   for commercial use. Provision shall be made that such   ships are to be operated under the   flag and shall not be sold to any person or corporation not a national of  , without the consent of  .

5. The Attorney General and   shall act in consultation with the Secretary of   in carrying out the terms of this Executive order with all possible promptness in a manner which will effectuate the foreign policy of   to assist friendly and     nations to rebuild their economies without delay.

 

 ,

 
