Executive Order  —Prescribing the Order of Succession of Officers to Act as Secreetary of Defense, Secretary of the  , Secretary of the  , and Secretary of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 179 of the Revised Statutes of   (5 U.S.C. 6), and as President of  , and in order to insure the continuity of operations of   in the event of disaster, the order of succession to the positions of Secretary of  , Secretary of the  , Secretary of the  , and Secretary of  , in the event of the death, disability, or absence of the officers holding such positions, is hereby prescribed as follows:

PART I

SUCCESSION TO THE POSITION OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of  , the following-designated officers, in  , shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of   in the order indicated:

1. Deputy Secretary of  

2. Secretary of the  .

3. Secretary of the  .

4. Secretary of  .

5. Assistant Secretaries of Defense, in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

6. Under Secretaries of the  ,  , and  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

7. Chairmen of   and  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

8. Assistant Secretaries of the  ,  , and  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

Precedence within a particular group between or among two or more officers having the same date of appointment shall be as determined by the Secretary of   at the time of appointment.

PART II

SUCCESSION TO THE POSITION OF SECRETARTY OF THE ARMY

In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of the  , the following-designated officers shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of the   in the order indicated:

1. Under Secretary of the  .

2. Assistant Secretaries of the  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

3. Chief of Staff,  .

4. Vice Chief of Staff,  .

5. Chief of  .

PART III

SUCCESSION TO THE POSITION OF SECRETARY OF THE  

In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of the  , the following-designated officers shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of the   in the order indicated:

1. Under Secretary of the  .

2. Assistant Secretary of the  .

3. Assistant Secretary of the   for Air.

4. Chief of  .

5. Vice Chief of Naval Operations.

PART IV

SUCCESSION TO THE POSITION OF SECRETARY OF   the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of  , the following-designated officials shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of   in the order indicated:

1. Under Secretary of  .

2. Assistant Secretaries of  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

3. Chief of Staff,  .

4. Vice Chief of Staff United States Air Force.

5. The Senior Deputy Chief of Staff who is not absent or disabled.

6.  ,  .

PART V

Succession to office pursuant to this order shall be on a temporary or interim basis and shall not have the effect of vacating the statutory position held by the successor.

 

 ,

 
