Executive Order  —  for the Commemoration of the One Hundred and Seventy-Fifth Anniversary of the Signing of the Declaration of Independence
 
 

WHEREAS   One Thousand Nine Hundred and Fifty-one will mark the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence; and

WHEREAS the ideals of the Declaration of Independence still guide   and give hope to the oppressed in other lands; and

WHEREAS the forces of aggression and tyranny are now threatening the utter destruction of the basic principles of freedom, both with respect to individual liberty and the liberty of free nations; and

WHEREAS   is   joined with other free nations in a struggle to resist aggression and tyranny and maintain peace; and

WHEREAS we the people of  , should carry on our efforts for peace and freedom with a fuller understanding of the great truths set forth in the Declaration of Independence, with renewed determination to maintain our cherished freedoms, and with faith and hope in that   which has protected our country from its beginnings;

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established the Commission for the Commemoration of the One Hundred and Seventy-fifth Anniversary of the Signing of the Declaration of Independence, hereinafter referred to as the  .

2. The   shall be composed of seven members, all ex officio, as follows: The Chief Justice of  , as Chairman, the Vice President of  , the Speaker of  , the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader of the  , and the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader of  .

3. It shall be the function of the   to plan and arrange for the appropriate commemoration, by ceremonies and otherwise, of the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence.

4. All executive departments and agencies of   are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   in its work and to furnish the   such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its functions.

5. When the   deems that its work has been completed, it shall report that fact to the President, and thereupon the   shall cease to exist.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
