Executive Order  —Delegating to the Secretary of   to   or Reserve Lands of   for Public Purposes
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code (section 10 of Public Law 248,    ), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) Subject to the provisions of subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section, I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the   the authority vested in the President by section 1 of the act of  , ch. 421, 36 Stat. 847 (43 U.S.C. 141), and the authority otherwise vested in him to withdraw or reserve lands of the public domain and other lands owned or controlled by   in the continental   or   for public purposes, including the authority to modify or revoke withdrawals and reservations of such lands heretofore or hereafter made.

(b) All orders issued by the Secretary of the   under the authority of this order shall be designated as public land orders and shall be submitted to  ,  , for filing and for publication in  .

(c) No order affecting land under the administrative jurisdiction of any executive department or agency of the   other than   shall be issued by the Secretary of the   under the authority of this order without the prior approval or concurrence, so far as the order affects such land, of the head of the department or agency concerned, or of such officer of the department or agency concerned as the head thereof may designate for such purpose: Provided, that such officer is required to be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the  .

(d) Any disagreement between two or more executive departments or agencies with respect to any proposed withdrawal or reservation shall be referred to the Director of   for consideration and adjustment. The Director may, in his discretion, submit the matter to the President for his determination.

 . 2. The Secretary of the   is authorized to issue such rules and regulations, and to prescribe such procedures, as he may from time to time deem necessary or desirable for the exercise of the authority delegated to him by this order.

 . 3. The Secretary of the   is authorized to redelegated the authority delegated to him by this order to one or more of the following-designated officers: the Under Secretary of the   and the Assistant Secretaries of the  .

 . 4. This order supersedes Executive Order No. 9337 of  , (1) entitled "Authorizing the Secretary of   Reserve Lands of   and Other Lands Owned or   by  ".

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
