Executive Order 10408—Transfer of the Administrion of the Portion of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Which Includes the Islands of   and   from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the  
 
 

WHEREAS the administration of   (hereinafter referred to as the trust territory) was transferred to the Secretary of the   by Executive Order No.   of  ; and

WHEREAS the purposes of the trusteeship agreement approved by   on  , and by   on  , can better be effectuated by placing in the Secretary of the   the authority and responsibility for the administration of that portion of the trust territory which includes the islands of   and  :

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. The administration of that portion of the trust territory which includes the islands of   and   is hereby transferred from the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of the  , such transfer to become effective on  .

2. When the transfer of administration made by this order becomes effective, the Secretary of the   shall take such action as may be necessary and appropriate, and in harmony with applicable law, for the administration of civil government in that portion of the trust territory which includes the island of   and   and shall, subject to such policies as the President may from time to time prescribe and, when appropriate, in collaboration with other departments or agencies of the Government, carry out the obligations assumed by   as the administering authority of the trust territory under the terms of the trusteeship agreement approved by   on  , and under the Charter of the United Nations: Provided, however, That the authority to specify parts or all of either of such islands as closed for security reason and to determine the extent to which   and 83 of the Charter of the   shall be applicable to such closed areas, in accordance with Article 13 of the trusteeship agreement, shall be exercised by the President: And provided further, That the Secretary of the   shall keep the activities on such islands affecting the foreign policy of   and shall consult the Secretary of   on questions of policy concerning such islands which relate to the foreign policy of  , and that all relations between departments or agencies of the   and appropriate organs of   with respect to such islands shall be conducted through the Secretary of  .

3. The executive departments and agencies of the Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with   and   in the effectuation of the provisions of this order.

4. To the extent that they pertain to the islands of   and  , the provisions of Executive Order No.   of  , shall be superseded by the provision of this order as of the date set out in the paragraph numbered 1, above.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
