Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and subject to the provisions of section 214 of  ,   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691), it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established  , which shall have as members one representative of each of the Departments of the  ,  ,  ,  , and  , and of  . The head of each such department and agency shall designate the representative thereof, and shall also designate an alternate representative. The Chairman of the   shall be designated by the President, from among its representative members or as an additional member.

 . 2. It shall be the duty of the said Committee:

(a) To maintain information regarding  , and local law-enforcement action taken in connection with the illegal sale and use of narcotic drugs and  , and to disseminate such information to  , and local law enforcement agencies and crime commissions.

(b) To maintain information regarding the character and effects of narcotic drugs and   and the nature and results of drug addiction.

(c) To examine and study problems and developments arising in the administration and enforcement, national and international, of the laws and conventions relating to narcotic drugs and  .

(d) To examine and study the problems of prevention and control of drug addiction and habituation and of the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts and other habituated persons.

(e) To advise the President as to such problems and developments, and to recommend such international, national,  , and local measures as, in the opinion of the  , should be taken with respect to such problems.

(f) To perform such other functions, authorized or permitted by law, with respect to the enforcement of the laws relating to narcotic drugs and   or with respect to other matters within the scope of this section as the President may direct.

 . 3. All executive departments and agencies of the   are requested to cooperate with the said   and to furnish it such available information as it may require for the performance of its duties; but this order shall not be construed as otherwise modifying the functions or responsibilities of any such department or agency.

 

 ,

 
