Executive Order  —Reserving Certain Lands Comprising a Part of   as an Addition to the Fort Missoula District of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the provisions of section 9 of the act of   approved on  , entitled "An Act to provide for the protection of forest lands, for the reforestation of denuded areas, for the extension of  , and for other purposes, in order to promote the continuous production of timber on lands chiefly suitable therefore" (43 Stat. 655), and as President of  , the following-described lands, which comprise a part of   in    , and which, in the opinion of the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of  , are suitable for the production of timber, are hereby reserved as a an addition to the Fort Missoula District of  , formerly  , established by Executive Order No.   of September 2,  :

MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN

T. 12 N.,   20 W.,

Secs. 3,  , and 5 (Fractional):

 . 6: S ½, S½NW¼, Lot 2 ( ),

SE¼NW¼

Sec. 7:   and N½SE¼

 . 8;

 . 9: S½, NW¼, S½NE¼ and NW¼NE¼.

T. 13 N.,   20 W.,

 . 32:  . 33:  . 34: SW¼, S½SE¼, and that part of N½SE¼ lying West of Bitterroot River;

 . 35: S½SW¼, SW¼SE¼

Containing 4,850.34 acres, more or less, according to   thereof.

T.12N.,   19 W.,

Sections 1 and 2: Beginning at corner Number 5 of the survey of   and  , thence N. 39° E. 40 chains; thence N. 85° E. 65 chains; thence  ° E. 10 chains; thence   chains; thence 35 chains; thence  ° W. 4 chains; thence  ° W. 20 chains to the place of beginning.

Containing 239.66 acres, more or less, according to   thereof.

The lands hereby reserved as an addition to the Fort Missoula District of   shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture under such rules and regulations and in accordance with such general plans as may be jointly approved by the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the   for the use, occupation, and protection of such lands and for the sale of products therefrom: Provided, that such lands shall remain subject to the unhampered use of   for purposes of national defense.

The rules and regulations applicable to the military establishment shall continue in full force and effect at all times and under all conditions upon all lands hereby added tin the Fort Missoula District of   except as otherwise provided by agreement between the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of Agriculture.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
