Executive Order  —Award of the Purle Heart to Persons Serving with the  ,  , or   of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Secretary of the   shall award  , in the name of the President of  , to any person who while serving in any capacity with the  ,  , or   of   has been, or may hereafter be, wounded (a) in any action against an enemy of  , (b) in any action with an opposing armed force of a foreign country in which the armed forces of   are engaged, or (c) as the result of an act of any such enemy or opposing armed force.

2. The Secretary of the   shall award the Purple Heart posthumously, in the name of the President of  , to any person who while serving in any capacity with the  ,  , or   of   after  , has been, or may hereafter be, killed, or who has died or may hereafter die subsequent to being wounded, (a) in any action against an enemy of  , (b) in any action with an opposing armed force of a foreign country in which the armed forces of   are engaged, or (c) as the result of an act of any such enemy or opposing armed force.

3. The wound for which the award is made must have required treatment by a medical officer.

4. The Purple Heart shall be forwarded to the nearest of kin of any person entitled to the posthumous award, regardless of whether a previous award has been made to such person, except that if the award results from service prior to  , the Purple Heart shall be forwarded to such nearest of kin upon his application therefore to the Secretary of the  ,

5. Except as authorized in paragraph 4 hereof, no more than on   shall be awarded to any one person, but for each subsequent justification for such an award a Gold Star, or other suitable device, shall be awarded to be worn with   as a prescribed by appropriate regulations.

6. If so authorized by the Secretary of the  , the award of the Purple Heart may be made by the Commander in Chief of a fleet, or by such other appropriate officer or officers as the Secretary of the   may designate.

7. The Secretary of the   may issue such regulations as he may deem appropriate to effectuate the purposes of this order. The regulations of the Secretary of the   and the regulations of the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   with respect to the award of the Purple Heart shall, so far as practicable, be of uniform application, and shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of  .

8. This order shall supersede Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Award of the Purple Heart to Persons Serving with the  ,   or   of  ", but existing regulations issued pursuant to that order shall, so far as they are not inconsistent with this order, remain in effect until modified or revoked by regulations issued by the Secretary of the   pursuant to this order.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
