Executive Order  —Transferring to   to Air-navigation Facilities Outside the Continental  
 
 

WHEREAS certain air-navigation facilities, including airports and associated airport facilities, located in   and elsewhere on territory outside the continental limits of   over which   exercises or claims sovereignty, can be utilized to material advantage in the operation of aircraft of  ; and

WHEREAS the rapid demobilization of personnel of the War and   is resulting in the abandonment or placing in caretaker status of these facilities and

WHEREAS large sums of public money have been expended in the construction of these facilities and   will suffer great loss if they are abandoned or not maintained in serviceable condition; and

WHEREAS the use and operation of such facilities are necessary and desirable for the promotion and development of civil aeronautics in the interest of  :

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority bested in me by the Constitution and states, including Title I of the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), and as President of  , and in the interest of the internal management of the Government, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There are transferred to   (a) all facilities, property, equipment, and maintenance supplies (including components thereof and structures and equipment appurtenant thereto or used in connection therewith) of the War and   relating to the care, control maintenance, and operation of air-navigation facilities (including airports and associated airport facilities) of   which (1) are located a t points in   and elsewhere outside the continental limits of   but not in foreign territory, (2) are determined by the War or  , as the case may be, to be no longer required for military purposes, and (3) are determined by   to be now or likely to become reasonably necessary in connection with safe and efficient operation of   civil aircraft; and (b) all functions relating to the care, control, maintenance, and operation of the facilities, property, equipment, and maintenance supplies transferred to   hereunder.

2.   shall perform, to the extent permitted by law, all acts necessary or incident to the consolidation, operation, protection, maintenance, and administration of the property transferred tin accordance with the provisions of this order by any or all the following means or methods: (a) by arrangement with the air carriers involved, (b) by assessing reasonable or suitable charges, and (c) by contract with a citizen of   as defined in Title 1, section 1, paragraph 13 of the Civil Aeronautics Act of1938, as amended (49 U. S. C. 401).

3. The functions transferred to   hereby may be performed by the Secretary of   through such agencies and personnel of   and I such manner and subject to such terms and conditions as he shall determine.

4. The provisions of this order shall become effective with respect to the facilities and equipment at each location at such time or times as may be agreed upon between   and   or between   and   as the case may be.

5. The provisions of this order shall be applicable to loran or other sea and air navigation facilities now operated by  , nor to any functions of the   respecting such facilities.

6. In case of military necessity as determined by the Secretary of the   from which the transfer is made, the War or  , as the case may be, shall have the right to take over immediately any facilities transferred hereunder together with any improvements made thereto and to make such alterations thereof as are necessary for military purposes.

7. Such further measures are dispositions as may be determined by the Director of   to be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of this order shall be taken and carried out at such time and in such manner as the Director shall prescribe.

8. This order shall not be construed as affecting Executive Order No. 9709 of  , or as authorizing the duplication of any existing functions now performed by any other Government agency at the locations involved.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
