Executive Order  —Providing for   of   and Related Statutes
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the laws referred to in section 1(a) of this order and by the act of  , 64 Stat. 419 (3 U.S.C. 301-303), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Delegation of functions of the President. (9a) Except as otherwise provided in section 1(b) of this order, the functions conferred upon the President by the following designated laws are hereby delegated to the Director for Mutual Security: the Mutual Security Act of  , 65 Stat. 373 (Public Law 164, 82d  , approved  ),   of  , 63 Stat. 714, as amended (22 U.S.C.  ), and the act of  , 61 Stat. 103, as amended (22 U.S.C.  ).

(b) There are hereby excluded from the functions delegated by section 1(a) of this order:

(1) The functions conferred upon the President by the laws referred to in section 1(a) of this   order with respect to the appointment of officers required to be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the  , the transmittal of  ,  , or other periodic statutory reports to the  , and the termination or withdrawal of assistance.

(2) The functions conferred upon the President with respect to findings, determinations, certification, agreements, or regulations, as the case may be, by sections 101, 202, 302(a), or 511, or by the proviso of section 401, of the said Mutual Security Act of   or by sections 303, 402, and 411(b) of the said Mutual Defense Assistance Act of  , as amended; functions so conferred with respect to the transfer of funds under sections 101(b), 303(a), and 513 of the Mutual Security Act of  ; and so much of the functions so conferred by section 5 of the said act of  , as amended, as relates to rules and regulations providing for coordination among representatives of   in each foreign country concerned.

(3) The functions conferred upon the President by sections 502(c), 503, 507, and 530 of the said Mutual Security Act of   and by sections 407(b)(2) and 408(f) of the said Mutual Defense Assistance Act of  , as amended.

(c) Funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the President to carry out the laws referred to in section 1(a) hereof shall be deemed to be allocated to the Director for Mutual Security without any further action by the President, and the said funds may be allocated by the Director for Mutual Security to any agency, department, establishment, or wholly-owned corporation of the Government for obligation or expenditure thereby, consistent with applicable law, subject, however, to the reservation of functions respecting transfer of funds set forth in section 1(b)(2) hereof.

(d) The functions delegated to the Director for Mutual Security by this section 1 shall be deemed to include the authority to redelegate the functions so delegated.

 . 2. International development. The administration of programs under the Act for International Development (Title IV of the act of  , 64 Stat. 204, as amended (22 U.S.C.   et seq.)) in accordance with Executive Order No.   of  , shall be subject to coordination, direction, and supervision by the Director for Mutual Security in accordance with section 501(a) of the Mutual Security Act of  ; and the said Executive Order No.   is amended accordingly.

 . 3. Coordination with foreign policy. The Secretary of   and the Director for Mutual Security shall establish and maintain arrangements which will insure that the programs included in the Mutual Security Act of   shall be carried out in conformity with the established foreign policy of  .

 . 4. Interrelationship of Director and Secretary of  . (a) Consonant with section 501(a) of the Mutual Security Act of  , the Secretary of   shall exercise the responsibility and authority vested in him by section 506(a) of the said Act subject to coordination, direction, and supervision by the Director for Mutual Security.

(b) The Secretary of   shall keep the Director for Mutual Security fully and currently informed of all matters, including prospective action, relating to the establishment of priorities under section 506(b) and the furnishing of military items under section 506(c) of the said Act.

 . 5. Economic cooperation. (a)  , is hereby fixed as the date on which sections 502(a), 502(b)(2) and 504(b) of the Mutual Security Act of   shall take effect.

(b)   is hereby designated as the agency responsible for liquidating any outstanding affairs of   which are now or hereafter required to be discontinued by law; and the said   shall be deemed to be the successor of the said Administration in all respects, subject to the provisions of the Mutual Security Act of  .

 . 6. Transfer of personnel, property, records and funds. So much of the personnel, records, property, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds of   as the Director of   determines to relate to functions under the Mutual Defense Assistance Act of  , as amended, and the said act of  , and to be required by the Director for Mutual Security for the performance of his functions hereunder shall be transferred to the Director for Mutual Security.

 . 7. Prior orders. (a) Effective as of the date fixed in section 5(a) hereof, with respect to provisions then in force, and except as may be inappropriate, references in prior Executive orders to  ,  , and   for (or in) Europe, are amended to refer to  , the Director for  , and the Special Representative in Europe (provided for in Section 504(a) of the Mutual Security Act of  ), respectively.

(b) To the extent that any provision of any prior Executive order is inconsistent with the provisions of this order, the latter shall control and such prior provision is amended accordingly.

(c) All orders, regulations, rulings, certificates, directives, agreements, contracts, delegations, and other actions of any department, agency, or other establishment or officer of the Government relating to any function or under any authority continued in effect by the Mutual Security Act of   shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under proper authority.

(d) Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby revoked.   (approved by the President  ) is hereby terminated. The provisions of the identical letters of the President transmitted to the Secretary of   and   on  , are hereby revoked.

 . 8. Definitions. As used in this order the term "functions" embraces duties, powers, responsibilities, authority, and discretion.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
