Executive Order 9651—Amending Executive Order  , Providing for Assistance to Expanded Production and Continued Stablization of  , and for   of Wartime Controls Over Prices, Wages, Materials and Facilities
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of   and particularly the Stabilization Act of   as amended, and for the purpose of carrying out the guiding policies of Executive Order   of  , and amplifying the provisions of part IV thereof, Executive Order   is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following part VI:

"VI.

"1.  , designated pursuant to Executive Order No.   of  , shall approve, under section 2 of part IV of this order, a wage or salary increase falling into any of the following three classes in any case in which such increase has been found by   or other designated agency to be necessary to correct a maladjustment or inequity which would interfere with the effective transition to a peacetime economy:

"a. Increases where the percentage increase in average straight time hourly earnings in the appropriate unit since   has not equaled the percentage increase in the cost of living between   and  .

"b. Increases necessary to correct inequities in wage rates or salaries among plants in the same industry or locality, with due regard to normal competitive relationships.

"c. Increases necessary to insure full production in an industry, designated by  , which is essential to reconversion and in which existing wage rates or salaries are inadequate to the recruitment of needed manpower.

"The Stabilization Administrator shall continue to approve wage or salary increases approved by   or other designated agency in cases in which such increases satisfy standards in effect prior to  .

"The Stabilization Administrator may define additional classes of wage or salary increases which   or other designated agency is authorized to approve as necessary to correct a maladjustment or inequity under section 2 or part IV of this order.

"Nothing in the foregoing shall be construed to require   or other designated agency to approve any wage increase unless, in its judgment, the increase is necessary, on the facts of the particular case, to correct a maladjustment or inequity which would interfere with the effective transition to a peacetime economy.

"In making findings under this section   or other designated agency shall be subject to directives issued by   under the authority conferred by Executive Orders 9250 and   or other applicable  .

"2. Nothing in this order shall be construed to prevent an employer from putting a wage or salary increase into effect and thereafter applying for approval of such increase, under the standards of this order, so that it may be used as the basis for seeking an increase in price ceilings, or for resisting otherwise justifiable reductions in price ceilings, or, in the case of products or services being furnished under contract with a federal procurement agency, for increasing the costs to  .

"3. Notwithstanding the fact that a wage or salary increase has not been approved in accordance with this order, the Price Administrator shall, after the expiration of a reasonable test period, which save in exceptional cases shall be   after the wage or salary increase has been made, take such increase into account in determining whether an increase in price ceilings is then required under the established standards governing increases in price ceilings."

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
