Executive Order  — ,  
 
 

WHEREAS under Article I of the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, signed at   on  , ratified by  , and proclaimed by the President on   (Treaties and Other International Acts, Series 2495),  , together with the governments of the other countries which have become parties to the Convention, undertakes to give effect to the provisions of the said   and of the   annexed thereto, to promulgate all laws, decrees, orders, and regulations, and to take all other steps which may be necessary to give the Convention full and complete effect, so as to insure that, from the point of view of safety of life, a ship is fit for the service for which it is intended; and

WHEREAS it is expedient and necessary, in order that   may give full and complete effect to the said  , that several departments and agencies of the executive branch of the said Government perform functions and duties thereunder; and

WHEREAS in accordance with Article XI of the Convention it has been determined that the   will come into force on  , THEREFORE, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1.  ,   ( ),   (Weather Bureau), and  , respectively, are hereby directed, in relation to the fulfillment of the obligations undertaken by   under the said  , to perform the functions and duties therein prescribed and undertaken which appertain to the functions and duties which they severally are now directed or authorized by law to perform. Each of the said departments and the said commission shall cooperate and assist the others in carrying out the duties imposed by the Convention and by this order.

2.   ( ), or such other agency as may be authorized by law so to do, shall issue certificates as required by the said  , and in any case in which a certificate is to include matter which appertains to the functions and duties directed or authorized by law to be performed by any department or agency other than the issuing agency, the issuing agency shall first ascertain from such other department or agency its decision with respect to such matter, and such decision shall be final and binding.

3. Whenever   operates as a part of the  , the functions to be performed by   ( ) under this order shall vest in and be performed by   ( ).

4. This order supersedes Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Enforcement of the Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, 1929", to the extent that the said   signed at   on  , replaces and abrogates   signed at   on  .

5. This order shall be effective as of  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
