Executive Order  —Transferring Occupation Functions in   to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the  , including Title Ii of Chapter XI of the General Appropriation Act,   (Public Law 759, 81st  ), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There are hereby vested in  , except as hereinafter provided the responsibilities and obligations of   in connection with the occupation of  , including the controls defined in the Agreement on   in   dated  . There are transferred to   such unobligated balances of the appropriation for Government and Relief in Occupied Areas for the Fiscal Year ending June 30,   and such property, including records, as the Director of   shall determine to relate primarily to the functions herein transferred.

2.   High Commissioner for   shall continue to be the supreme   authority in  , shall be the Chief of   diplomatic mission, and shall be responsible, under the immediate supervision of the Secretary of  , for the total governmental program of   in  , including representation of   in   for  : Provided, That (1) with respect to military matters as mutually defined by   and  ,   in  , shall continue to receive instructions directly from the joint  , and (2) the chief of the special mission of   and his staff shall function in relation to the High Commissioner as described in section 109(b) of the Economic Cooperation Act of   (Public Law 472, 80th  ), as amended.

3. On request of the High Commissioner, or in accordance with his instructions from   in respect of military matters, the Commanding General shall take all necessary measures to protect   interests in   and whatever action may be considered essential to preserve law and order and safeguard the security of   troops and personnel.

4. Except as stated above, all representatives of   in   are under the authority of the High Commissioner, who will facilitate the work of   agencies in   and will assist them in their relations with representatives of  , all such relations being subject to his jurisdiction and discretion.

5. This order shall become effective on  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
