Executive Order  —Providing for the Performance of Certain Functions of the President by the Secretary of the  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1 of the act of  , 64 Stat. 419 (Public Law 673, 81st  ), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. The Secretary of the   is hereby designated and empowered to perform the following-described functions of the President without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:

(a) The authority vested in the President by section 1 of the act of  , c. 223, 38 Stat. 609, 623, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2), (1) to rearrange, by consolidation or otherwise, the several customs-collection districts, (2) to discontinue ports of entry by abolishing the same and establishing others in their stead, and (3) to change from time to time the location of the headquarters in any customs-collection district as the needs of the service may require.

(b) The authority vested in the President by section 1 of the Anti-Smuggling Act of  ,  , 49 Stat. 517 (19 U.S.C. 1701), (1) to find and declare that at any place or within any area on the high seas adjacent to but outside customs waters any vessel or vessels hover or are being kept off the coast of   and that, by virtue of the presence of any such vessel or vessels at such place or within such area, the unlawful introduction or removal into or from   of any merchandise or person is being, or may be occasioned, promoted, or threatened, (2) to find and declare that certain waters on the high seas are in such proximity to such vessel or vessels that such unlawful introduction or removal of merchandise or persons may be carried on by or to or from such vessel or vessels, and (3) to find and declare that, within any customs-enforcement area, the circumstances no longer exist which gave rise to the declaration of such areas as a customs-enforcement area.

(c) The authority vested in the President by section 2 of the act of  , c. 256, 38 Stat. 699 (46 U.S.C. 82), to suspend the provisions of law requiring survey, inspection, and measurement of foreign-built vessels admitted to   registry.

(d) The authority vested in the President by section 5 of the act of  , c. 212, 35 Stat. 425, as amended (46 U.S.C. 104), to determine (as a prerequisite to the extension of reciprocal privileges by  ) that yachts used and employed exclusively as pleasure vessels and belonging to any resident of   are allowed to arrive at and depart from any foreign port and to cruise in the waters of such port without entering or clearing at the custom-house thereof and without the payment of any charges for entering or clearing, dues, duty  , tonnage taxes, or charges for cruising licenses.

(e) The authority vested in the President by section 2 of the act of  ,  ,   Stat.   (46 U.S.C. 134), to name the hospital ships to which section 1 of the said act shall apply and to indicate the time when the exemptions thereby provided for shall begin and end.

(f) The authority vested in the President by section 4228 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (46 U.S.C. 141), (1) to declare that-upon satisfactory proof being given by the government of any foreign nation that no discriminating duties of tonnage or imposts are imposed or levied in the ports of such nation upon vessels wholly belonging to citizens of  , or upon the produce, manufacturers, or merchandise imported in the same from   or from any foreign country-the foreign discriminating duties of tonnage and impost within   are suspended and discontinued, so far as respects the vessels of such foreign nation, and the produce, manufacturers, or merchandise imported into   from such foreign nation, or from any other foreign country, and (2) to suspend in part the operation of section 4219 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (46 U.S.C. 121), and section IV, J, subsection 1 of the act of  , c 16, 38 Stat. 195, as amended (46 U.S.C. 146), so that foreign vessels from a country imposing partial discriminating tonnage duties upon   vessels, or partial discriminating import duties upon   merchandise, may enjoy in our ports the identical privileges which the same class of   vessels and merchandise may enjoy in such country: Provided, that   shall obtain and furnish to the Secretary of the   the proof required by the said section  , as amended, as the basis for an order of the Secretary suspending and discontinuing (wholly or in part) discriminating tonnage duties, imposts, and import duties within  : And provided further, that the said authority shall be exercised in consultation with  .

(g) The authority vested in the President by section 3639 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (31 U.S.C. 521), to regulate and increase the sums for which bonds are or may be, required by law, but only to the extent that such section affects collectors of customs, comptrollers of customs, and surveyors of customs (and the successors thereof under section 1 of the act of  ,  , 47 Stat. 580, 584 (19 U.S.C. 5a)).

(h) The authority vested in the President by section 3650 of   (26 U.S.C.  ) to establish convenient collection districts (for the purpose of assessing, levying, and collecting the taxes provided by the internal revenue laws), and from time to time to alter such districts.

2. The Secretary of the   is hereby designated and empowered to perform without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President the following functions which have heretofore, under the respective provisions of law cited, required the approval of the President in connection with their performance by the Secretary of the  :

(a) The authority vested in the Secretary of the   by section 6 of the act of  ,  , 50 Stat. 480 (5 U.S.C.  ), to make rules and regulations necessary for the execution of the functions vested in the Secretary of the   by the said act, as amended.

(b) The authority vested in the Secretary of the   by section 9 of the act of  ,  , 48 Stat.   (31 U.S.C.  ), to issue rules and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the purposes of the said act or of any order issued thereunder.

(c) The authority vested in the Secretary of the   by section 1805 of   (26 U.S.D. 1805) to issue rules and regulations (with respect to silver bullion) necessary or proper to carry out the purposes of the said section.

(d) The authority vested in the Secretary of the   by section 3 of the act of  ,  , 48 Stat. 340 (31 U.S.C. 442), to issue regulations prescribing the conditions under which gold may be acquired and held transported, melted or treated, imported, exported, or earmarked for certain purposes.

(e) The authority vested in the Secretary of the   by section 1 of Title II of the act of  , c. 30, 40 Stat. 220 (50 U.S.C. 191), to make rules and regulations governing the anchorage and movement of any vessel, foreign or domestic, in the territorial waters of  , exclusive of the territory and waters of the Canal Zone.

(f) The authority vested in the Secretary of the   by section 6 of the act of  ,  , 48 Stat.   (31 U.S.C. 316b), to investigate, regulate, or prohibit, by means of licenses or otherwise, the acquisition, importation, exportation or transportation of silver and of contracts and other arrangements made with respect thereto, and to require the filing of reports in connection therewith.

3. The Secretary of the   and   are hereby designated and empowered jointly to prescribe without the approval of the President regulations, under section 1 of the act of  ,  , 50  . 479 (5 U.SC. 134), governing the shipment of valuables by the executive departments, independent establishments, agencies, wholly-owned corporations, officers, and employees of  .

4. As used in this order, the term "functions" embraces duties, powers, responsibilities, authority, or discretion, and the term "perform" may be construed to mean "exercise".

5. All actions heretofore taken by the President in respect of the matters affected by this order and in force at the time of the issuance of this order, including regulations prescribed by the President in respect of such matters, shall, except as they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this order, remain in effect until amended, modified, or revoked pursuant to the authority conferred by this order.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
