Executive  —  and   
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the First War Powers Act (55 Stat. 838; 50 U.S. Code 601,  . IV), and other applicable statutes, as Commander in Chief of the   and  , and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. In order to provide for the more effective integration of its activities, the   shall hereafter be organized to take cognizance of the major groupings of: military matters; general and related administrative matters; business and related industrial matters. The structure of the organization to accomplish this purpose shall be such as the Secretary of the   may deem appropriate and necessary, with due regard for the necessity for delegation and decentralization.

2. The Secretary of the   shall prescribe such duties for the Under Secretary of the   and the Assistant Secretaries of the  , and may transfer to, from, and among the offices and bureaus of the   such of their functions and duties, as may be appropriate and necessary to effectuate the provisions of this order.

3. As used in this order, the term "naval establishment" means naval sea, air and ground forces—vessels of war, aircraft, auxiliary craft and auxiliary activities, and the personnel who man them—and the naval agencies necessary to support and maintain the naval forces and to administer the   as a whole; the term " " means the executive part of the naval establishment at the seat of the Government.

  is an integral part of the naval establishment. In time of war or when the President shall so direct,   is a part of the naval establishment.

4. The Chief of Naval Operations

(a) shall be the principal naval adviser to the President and to the Secretary of the   on the conduct of war, and principal naval adviser and military executive to the Secretary of the   on the conduct of the activities of the naval establishment.

(b) shall have command of the operating forces comprising the several fleets, seagoing forces, sea frontier forces, district and other forces, and the related shore establishments of the  , and shall be responsible to the Secretary of the   for their use in war and for plans and preparations for their readiness for war.

(c) shall be charged, under the direction of the Secretary of the  , with the preparation, readiness and logistic support of the operating forces, comprising the several fleets, sea-going forces, sea frontier forces, district and other forces, and related shore establishments of the  , and with the coordination and direction of effort to this end of the bureaus and offices of  .

5. The staff of the Chief of Naval Operations shall be composed of such numbers of Vice  , Deputy  , Assistant Chiefs of Naval Operations, a Naval Inspector General, and other officers as may be considered by the Secretary of the   to be appropriate and necessary for the performance of the duties herein prescribed for the Chief of Naval Operations.

6. There shall be in  

(a) An office charged with coordination and correlation of the activities of bureaus and offices, as the Secretary of the   may direct, to effectuate common policies of procurement, contracting and production of material throughout the   establishment.

(b) An office charged, as the Secretary of the   may direct, with the coordination of naval research, experimental, test and development activities and with such other related duties as may be appropriate.

7. The bureaus and offices of  , in addition to the Chiefs of such bureaus and offices, shall be staffed by such officers, including a Deputy and one or more Assistant Chiefs, as may be determined to be appropriate and necessary by the Secretary of the  .

8. During the temporary absence of the Secretary of the  , the Under Secretary of the  , the Assistant Secretary of the  , the Assistant Secretary of the   for Air, and the Chief of Naval Operations, in that order, shall be next in succession to act as the Secretary of the  . In the absence of the Chief of Naval Operations, the Vice and Deputy   shall be next in succession in accordance with relative rank.

9. Nothing in this order is intended to modify the statutory authority, duties or responsibilities of the Secretary of the  , nor shall it be so construed.

10. Executive Orders   of   (as amended by Executive   of  ) are hereby revoked.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
