Executive Order  —Relating to   High Commissioner to  
 
 

WHEREAS it is necessary to provide in   in the interim before independence the most efficient administration of   civil authority and to provide for the coordination of the activities of departments and other agencies of   operating in  ; and

WHEREAS the heavy damages to property and life, the disruption of trade, commerce and finance, and the political and social difficulties which surround the government of   as a result of the war are matters of deep concern which require the attention and assistance of   for the reestablishment of orderly civil government, and for the relief and rehabilitation of the people; and

WHEREAS section 7 (4) of   of   (48 Stat. 461) as amended, provides that   High Commissioner to   "shall be the representative of the President of   in  , and shall be recognized as such by the government of  , by the commanding officer of the military forces of  , and by all civil officials of   in  ," and further, that, "He shall perform such additional duties and functions as may be delegated to him from time to time by the President under the provisions of this Act;"

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. Executive  .   of  , is hereby repealed and the functions, powers, and duties of   High Commissioner to  , together with the personnel, records, property, and funds of the office of   High Commissioner to   are transferred from the Secretary of the   to the said   High Commissioner to  .

2. All powers and authority of the President in respect to   and the government of  , its branches, subdivisions, and instrumentalities which may be lawfully so delegated are hereby delegated to   High Commissioner to  .

3.   High Commissioner to   in   and the Secretary of the   in   shall be responsible for the representation, administration and coordination of the authority and policies of   in respect to  . They shall recommend to the President and to the chief officers of departments and agencies of   the procedures and policies which in their opinions may be desirable or necessary for the welfare of the people of  , and for the protection and advancement of the national policies of   in  .

4. The functions, powers and duties of the offices, missions and other agencies of civil departments and agencies of   represented or operating in the   Islands shall be exercised under the supervision of   High Commissioner to   and such offices, missions and other agencies shall be deemed to the attached to his office.

5. The chief officers of   and   in the   Islands shall maintain close liaison with   High Commissioner to  , make available to him such reports, records and afford him all possible aid and assistance.

6. Except as the Secretary of the   may otherwise approve, all representations to the government of   from any department or agency of   originating in   shall be made by or through the Secretary of the  , or a member of his staff designated by him, and   High Commissioner to  . Except as   High Commissioner to   may approve, all such representations originating in the   Islands shall be made through   High Commissioner to  , or a member of his staff designated by him, and the Secretary of the   shall be promptly informed of representations so made.

7. Except as the Secretary of the   may otherwise approve, all representations to   from officers of the government of   in   shall be made to the Secretary of the  , or a member of his staff designated by him; Provided, however, That this provision shall not interfere with the right of   to   to serve as a delegate to  .

8. There is specifically delegated to   High Commissioner to   the authority to employ such staff and assistants as he may require, and, funds being provided therefor, fix their rates of compensation, which rates shall conform in general with the rates fixed in the Classification Act and   of   or like acts which may come into effect:

Provided, That any person who now occupies, or who may in the future occupy, one of the positions on the staff of   High Commissioner to  , upon nomination by the High Commissioner, may be transferred to a classified (competitive) civil service position in  .

9.   High Commissioner to   and civilian employees of his office and staff serving in   who are citizens of   shall be entitled to receive the maximum leave, salary differentials, and allowances authorized or permissible under the law for civilian employees of   serving outside the continental limits of  .

10.   High Commissioner to   may, if in his judgment such action seems desirable, station employees of his office and staff in  ,  , to assist him and the Secretary of the   in the performance of their duties in respect to  .

11. An employee of the office or staff of   High Commissioner to the   Islands having   status who is transferred from another agency of   to the office or staff of   High Commissioner to  , and whose service is subsequently involuntarily terminated shall be entitled to return to his previous position or to one of equal seniority, status and pay: Provided, That he is still qualified to perform the duties of the position and he makes application for reinstatement within   after termination of his service.

12. In respect to persons who have been or may become employees of the office or staff of   High Commissioner to   the provision of section 5 of   of  , as amended, which provides in addition to certain services of employees that may be credited for retirement benefits, "also periods of services performed overseas under authority of  " shall be interpreted to include all periods of service performed under the government of the   Islands prior to the establishment of the government of    .

13.   and   shall extend to   High Commissioner to  , the employees of his office and staff and the employees of other departments and agencies of   stationed in   and their families such commissary and post exchange privileges and recreational, medical, dental and hospital facilities as are extended to personnel of their services stationed in   and their families.

14. Sections 4 and 6 of this order shall not be applicable to  , United States Attorneys, and  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
