Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established  , with accompanying appurtenances and devices, for award to members and former members of the reserve components of the armed forces of   as hereinafter provided.

2.   shall be of such design as the Secretary of   shall approve: Provided, That the obverse face of the medal shall be of the same design in all cases, and the reverse face shall be distinctive in design with respect to each reserve component of the armed forces of  , including   and  : And provided further, That the reverse face of the medal to be awarded to members of   shall be of such design as the Secretary of the   shall approve.

3.   may be awarded to members or former members of the reserve components of the armed forces of  , including   and  , who complete, or have completed, a total of   of honorable service in one or more of such reserve components, including   active-duty and inactive-duty training as required by appropriate regulations: Provided, (1) That such   of service is, or has been, performed within a period of  , (2) that any medal awarded hereunder shall be of the design distinctive of the reserve component in which the person to whom it is awarded is serving at the time of the award or in which he last service, (3) that such service shall not include service in a regular component of the armed forces, including  , and (4) that such service shall not include service for which the naval   or   has been, or may be, awarded.

4. Not more than one   may be awarded to any one person, but for each succeeding   period of service as above described a suitable device may be awarded, to be worn with the medal in accordance with appropriate regulations.

5. A member of a   or   component who is eligible to receive   or   Reserve Medal may at his election be awarded, in lieu of such medal,  .

6.   shall be awarded in lieu of   and   for service performed after   from the date on which such medals were established.

7. Subject to the provisions of this order,   shall be awarded under such regulations as the Secretaries of the military departments of   and the Secretary of the   shall severally prescribe. Such regulations shall, so far as practicable, be of uniform application, and regulations issued pursuant to this order by the Secretaries of the military departments of   shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of  .

HARRY S. TRUMAN

 ,

 
