113 HRES 262 IH: Calling for the immediate extradition or rendering to the United States of convicted felon William Morales and all other fugitives from justice who are receiving safe harbor in Cuba in order to escape prosecution or confinement for criminal offenses committed in the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-06-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 262
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 14, 2013
Mr. King of New York
(for himself,
Mr. Garrett
,
Mr. LoBiondo
,
Ms. Ros-Lehtinen
,
Mr. Diaz-Balart
, and
Mr. Grimm
) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign
Affairs
RESOLUTION
Calling for the immediate extradition or
rendering to the United States of convicted felon William Morales and all other
fugitives from justice who are receiving safe harbor in Cuba in order to escape
prosecution or confinement for criminal offenses committed in the United
States.
Whereas William Morales, leader and chief bomb-maker for
the terrorist organization FALN, committed numerous terrorist attacks on United
States soil, including the bombings of Fraunces Tavern in lower Manhattan in
1975 and the Mobil Oil employment office in New York in 1977, which killed 5
people and injured hundreds;
Whereas at least 79 fugitives from the United States,
charged with offenses ranging from hijacking to kidnapping to drug offenses to
murder, are believed to be receiving safe harbor in Cuba;
Whereas other fugitives from United States justice who are
receiving safe harbor in Cuba include Joanne Chesimard, who was convicted for
the killing of a New Jersey state trooper; Charles Hill, wanted for the killing
of a state trooper in New Mexico, Victor Manuel Gerena, on the FBI’s list of
the “Ten Most Wanted” fugitives for carrying out a brutal robbery of a Wells
Fargo armored car in Connecticut, and Guillermo Morales, who was convicted of
illegal possession of firearms in New York;
Whereas according to treaties enacted in 1905 and 1926 (33
Stat. 2265, 33 Stat. 2273, and 44 Stat. 2392), the United States has a
bilateral extradition treaty with Cuba;
Whereas “Extradition” is the formal surrender of a person
by a country to another country for prosecution or punishment;
Whereas in January 2002, Cuba deported to the United
States Jesse James Bell, a United States fugitive wanted on drug
charges;
Whereas in March 2002, Cuba extradited drug trafficker
Luis Hernando Gómez Bustamante to Colombia, and Gómez Bustamante was
subsequently extradited to the United States in July 2007 to face drug
trafficking charges; and
Whereas it is imperative that Cuba abide by its
extradition treaty with the United States and immediately extradite or render
to the United States those legally indicted or convicted of serious criminal
offenses in the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of
Representatives—
(1)
calls for the immediate extradition or
rendering to the United States of convicted felon William Morales and all other
fugitives from justice who are receiving safe harbor in Cuba in order to escape
prosecution or confinement for criminal offenses committed in the United
States;
(2)
urges the
international community to continue to press for the immediate extradition or
rendering of all fugitives from justice that are receiving safe harbor in Cuba;
and
(3)
calls on the
Secretary of State and the Attorney General of the United States to continue to
press for the immediate extradition or rendering of all fugitives from United
States justice so that they may be tried or, if convicted, serve out their
sentences.
