113 HRES 120 IH: A resolution commemorating the life and service of Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, and congratulating Pope Francis on his election as Supreme Pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-03-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 120
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 15, 2013
Mr. Grimm
(for
himself,
Mr. Tiberi
,
Mr. Pascrell
, and
Mr. Lipinski
) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign
Affairs
RESOLUTION
A resolution commemorating the life and
service of Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, and congratulating Pope Francis on his
election as Supreme Pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church.
Whereas Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, a man of monumental
courage and humility, whose unceasing love and devotion to the ministry of
Christ helped steward the Catholic Church and the faithful through the daunting
challenges of the 21st century;
Whereas Benedict leaves behind an enduring legacy, both as
renowned theologian and kind-hearted leader who balanced the august splendor of
the papacy with a gentle humanity, and masterfully communicated the timeless
morality of the Church in a crusade against the modern evils of relativism,
materialism, and consumerism;
Whereas the election to the papacy of His Holiness Pope
Francis, formerly Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio of Argentina, marks a
groundbreaking moment in the life of the Catholic Church, elevating a marvelous
suitor to lead the world’s largest apostolic Christian ministry;
Whereas Pope Francis has inspired a vibrant sense of
reform and spiritual renewal in the Church, representing the first pontiff born
in the New World, the first hailing from Latin America, and the first prelate
ordained in the renowned Society of Jesus or Jesuits;
Whereas the Pope’s chosen regnal name of Francis, after
St. Francis of Assisi, as well as his unrivaled reputation as a personally
devoted minister to the needs of the poor and outcast, emphasizes the
opportunities and obligations of mankind to serve a missionary role in
advancing peace, social justice, and moral contemplation for the betterment of
all God’s children;
Whereas as President of the Argentine Episcopal
Conference, Pope Francis’ experience as spiritual guide and premiere pastoral
administrator of one of the Holy See’s largest and most active diocese reveals
his unique ability to accomplish much needed reforms in the Vatican and sustain
a growing Church in the world’s developing communities in Latin America,
Africa, and Asia; and
Whereas Pope Francis’ striking humility and simple
gentleness empowers him to connect with and renew the hearts of the faithful
and heal the recent wounds of the Church: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
offers its
congratulations to Pope Francis as he embarks on the sacred burden as the
leader of the world’s 1,200,000,000 Catholics; and
(2)
extends its
gratitude and well-wishes to Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, for his service to
the world community as he enters the next phase of his devotion to the Church
in solemn prayer and reflection.
