Executive Order
 
 . *

*Sent to all diplomatic and consular officers of  .

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

 ,  .

SIR: It has become my most painful duty to announce to you the sudden and violent death of the Hon.  , late Secretary of   of  . This afflicting dispensation occurred on the afternoon of  , from the bursting of one of the great guns on board the Government steamship

Princeton

, near  , on her return from an excursion of pleasure down the river Potomac. By this most unfortunate accident several of our distinguished citizens, amongst whom were the Secretaries of State and of the  , were immediately killed, and many other persons mortally wounded or severely injured. It is the wish of the President that the diplomatic and consular agents of  , and all other officers connected with  , either at home or abroad, shall wear the usual badge of mourning, in token of their grief and of respect for the memory of Mr.  , during   from the time of receiving this order.

In consequence of this event, the President has been pleased to charge me

ad interim

with the direction of  , and I have accordingly   entered upon the duties of this appointment.

I have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your obedient servant,

 .  .

GENERAL ORDERS.

WAR DEPARTMENT,

 .

In the deepest grief the President of   has instructed the undersigned to announce to the   that from the accidental explosion of a gun   on board   steamship   the country and its   lost at the same moment the Secretary of  , the Hon.  , and the Secretary of the  , the Hon.  .

Called but   since to preside over the administration of  , it is peculiarly painful to the undersigned that his first official communication to the   should be the announcement of a calamity depriving the country of the public services of two of our most accomplished statesmen and popular and deeply esteemed fellow-citizens. Their virtues, talents, and patriotic services will ever be retained in the grateful recollection of their countrymen and perpetuated upon the pages of the history of our common country.

Deep as may be the gloom which spreads over the community, it has pleased the Almighty Disposer of Events to add another shade to it by blending in this melancholy catastrophe the deaths of an eminent citizen,  ,  , lately charge' d'affaires to  ; a gallant and meritorious officer of the  , a chief of a bureau,  , and a private citizen of   of high and estimable character, besides others, citizens and sailors, either killed or wounded.

As appropriate honors to the memory of these distinguished  , half-hour guns will be fired at every military post furnished with the proper ordnance   after the receipt of this order from sunrise to sunset. The national flag will be displayed at half-staff during the same time. And all officers Of the   will wear for   the customary badge of mourning.

WM.  ,

Secretary of  .

NAVY DEPARTMENT,

 .

As a mark of respect to the memory of the late Hon.  , Secretary of the  , whose career at his entrance upon the duties of his office, would have been nobly maintained by that ability and vigor of which his whole previous life had been the guaranty, the flags of all vessels in commission,  -yards, and stations are to be hoisted at half-mast on   after the receipt of this order, minute guns to the number of seventeen are to be fired between sunrise and sunset, and crape is to be worn on the left arm and upon the sword for the space of  .

By command of the President:

L. WARRINGTON,

Secretary of the   ad interim.
