1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Mental Health Care Provider Retention Act of 2025
.
2.
Retention of mental health care provider
(a)
In general
During the transition from receiving treatment furnished by the Secretary of Defense to treatment furnished by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, a covered individual may elect to continue receiving treatment from such individual’s mental health care provider of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Priority
A covered individual shall receive the same level of priority as members of the Armed Forces at the military medical treatment facility at which the covered individual has elected to continue treatment.
(c)
Reimbursement of costs
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall reimburse the Secretary of Defense for services rendered pursuant to subsection (a), if such services would have otherwise been furnished by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(d)
Departure of mental health care provider
In the event that the mental health care provider described under subsection (a) departs the military medical treatment facility at which the covered individual is receiving treatment, such individual may elect to obtain the services of—
(1)
a different mental health care provider at the same military medical treatment facility; or
(2)
a mental health care provider of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(e)
Departure of covered individual
In the event that the covered individual relocates and is unable to reasonably receive care at the military medical treatment facility at which such individual has elected to continue treatment under subsection (a), such individual shall transition to receiving treatment from a mental health care provider of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(f)
Medical records
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that any mental health care provider of the Department of Defense that furnishes care or services under this section to a covered individual submits to the Department of Veterans Affairs a copy of any medical record related to the care or services provided to such individual by such mental health care provider for inclusion in the electronic medical record of such individual maintained by the Department of Veterans Affairs upon such individual’s transition to receiving treatment from a mental health care provider of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(g)
Definition of covered individual
In this section, the term
covered individual
means an individual who has been diagnosed with a mental health condition and—
(1)
is enrolling in the patient enrollment system of the Department of Veterans Affairs, established by section 1705 of title 38, United States Code; or
(2)
has enrolled in the patient enrollment system of the Department of Veterans Affairs and is still in transition from receiving treatment furnished by the Secretary of Defense, as determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
