1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Patients from Rehab Fraud Act of 2025
.
2.
Reports on the drug addiction treatment and recovery industry
(a)
DOJ report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report on the drug addiction treatment and recovery industry. Such report shall include the following:
(1)
The prevalence of entities using illegal tactics to entice individuals to enter a rehabilitation facility.
(2)
The prevalence of insurance fraud in plans offered through an Exchange established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act relating to individuals housed in such facilities.
(3)
The practice of brokers encouraging patients to commit insurance fraud to enroll in high-cost out-of-network insurance plans.
(4)
The prevalence of drug use and trafficking within these facilities.
(5)
The practice of
patient dumping,
also known as
curbing,
by which patients are removed from a facility and abandoned once their insurer no longer pays the facility.
(6)
The prevalence of patients being dumped in places other than the original location they came from to attend such a facility.
(7)
Any research on the prevalence of homelessness and relapse among individuals who are dumped.
(8)
Recommendations for Congress to crack down on illegal practices and false dealing in the rehabilitation industry and protect prospective patients seeking rehabilitation.
(b)
GAO report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report on the drug addiction treatment and recovery industry. Such report shall include the following:
(1)
The actions currently being undertaken by the Secretary of Health and Human Services and other Federal actors to curb the type of insurance fraud described in subsection (a)(2).
(2)
The actions currently being undertaken by States to curb this type of insurance fraud.
(3)
The extent and effectiveness of Federal expenditures for rehabilitation facilities to date.
(4)
Recommendations for Congress to crack down on illegal practices and false dealing in the rehabilitation industry and protect prospective patients seeking rehabilitation.
