1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Defending American Diplomacy Act
.
2.
Prohibition on implementation absent specific statutory authorization
(a)
In general
No reorganization of the Department of State may be implemented or otherwise take effect unless both of the following conditions are met:
(1)
There is enacted specific statutory authorization to carry out such reorganization.
(2)
The Secretary of State has submitted to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed plan, pursuant to section 3, with respect to the reorganization.
(b)
Consequence for noncompliance
On and after the date on which the Comptroller General certifies to the Chair and Ranking Member of each of the appropriate congressional committees that the Secretary of State has implemented a reorganization in a manner that is not in compliance with the prohibition under subsection (a)—
(1)
no Federal funds may be made available to facilitate any activity of the Department of Government Efficiency; and
(2)
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of State may be obligated or expended for official travel by any politically appointed official of the Department.
3.
Requirement for submission of detailed plans
Upon determining that any reorganization of the Department of State or any component of such Department is necessary, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed plan for such reorganization that shall include, at a minimum, the following elements:
(1)
A clear description of the proposed organizational changes and a justification for such changes, including a description of the manner and extent to which current roles, responsibilities, and personnel of the Department or relevant component of the Department will be affected.
(2)
A clear description of what, if any, new responsibilities the Department or affected component will absorb and a detailed plan of how the Department or affected component will develop or acquire the competencies and expertise to carry out these new responsibilities.
(3)
An analysis of the potential impacts on the ability to advance United States foreign policy interests, including impacts to each of the following:
(A)
Diplomatic footprint and operations abroad.
(B)
Consular services and visa processing times, including as a result of any closures of consulates and diplomatic posts abroad.
(C)
The ability to carry out existing multilateral and bilateral diplomatic commitments.
(D)
Bilateral and multilateral military cooperation and security assistance.
(E)
United States intelligence gathering capabilities and United States intelligence posture abroad.
(F)
Interagency coordination with international partners.
(G)
Advancing United States development objectives abroad and facilitating the delivery of lifesaving humanitarian assistance.
(4)
An explanation of how the proposed changes will improve the Department of State’s ability to carry out its overall strategic objectives in comparison to the previous organizational structure.
(5)
An assessment of the potential risks or unintended consequences that may result from the proposed changes, including—
(A)
how United States competitors might capitalize on any downsizing of diplomatic functions to advance their own military, intelligence, soft power, economic, or political interests; and
(B)
which diplomatic relationships and United States interests would be especially vulnerable to the impacts of the desired reorganization.
(6)
A detailed implementation plan and timeline for making the proposed changes, including mechanisms to mitigate any adverse effects on the Department or affected component’s functions and personnel that would provide a more stable transition.
(7)
A detailed analysis of the impact on the workforce and personnel of the affected components as well as the broader Department and a transition plan for the termination or reassignment and retraining of employees, including plans for the compensation of any terminated employees.
(8)
A certification that no Federal laws or regulations will be violated for the purposes of executing the reorganization, including specifically that no affected employee’s rights or protections will be violated.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
(2)
Reorganization
The term
reorganization
means any action which, pursuant to section 7063 of division F of
Public Law 118–47
, would require prior consultation and notification.
