1.
Emergency safety and security grant program
Section 9(d) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437g(d)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (K), by striking
appropriate; and
and inserting
appropriate;
;
(B)
in subparagraph (L), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(M)
the emergency safety and security grant program established under paragraph (4).
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(4)
Emergency safety and security grant program
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall establish an emergency safety and security grant program to award grants of amounts appropriated under this paragraph, in addition to a set-aside amount determined by the Secretary from the annual formula of the Capital Fund, to public housing agencies to purchase, install, repair, or replace items relating to security and safety.
(B)
Applications
(i)
In general
To be eligible to receive a grant under this paragraph, a public housing agency shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(ii)
Multiple applications
A public housing agency may submit a separate grant application for each use under subparagraph (C).
(C)
Use of funds
A public housing agency that receives a grant under this paragraph shall use the grant to purchase, install, repair, or replace—
(i)
items that address the threat to safety posed by crime and drug-related activity, including—
(I)
security systems and cameras;
(II)
fencing;
(III)
lighting systems;
(IV)
emergency alarm systems;
(V)
window bars;
(VI)
deadbolt locks; or
(VII)
doors; or
(ii)
items that address the threat to health and safety posed by—
(I)
the presence of carbon monoxide, including carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detectors;
(II)
fire, including smoke detectors and heat detectors; or
(III)
extreme temperatures, including to comply with any model guidelines established by the Secretary with respect to minimum heating requirements in public housing.
(D)
Grant amounts
The Secretary may not award more than $250,000 to a public housing agency in a fiscal year unless such public housing agency is categorized as extra large by the Secretary, or unless such public housing agency has more than 5,000 units.
(E)
Authorization of appropriations
In addition to any amounts appropriated under subsection (c)(2)(A), there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this paragraph $225,000,000 in each fiscal year following the date of the enactment of this paragraph.
.
