1.
Denial, suspension, or early termination of enrollment in a Trusted Traveler program
(a)
In general
Upon denying, suspending, or early terminating an individual’s enrollment in a program specified in subsection (d), the Secretary of Homeland Security (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
), acting through the Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (TRIP) of the Department of Homeland Security, shall carry out the following:
(1)
Provide to such individual an option to appeal such denial, suspension, or early termination, as the case may be.
(2)
Provide in writing to such individual information relating to the following:
(A)
The reason for such denial, suspension, or early termination, as the case may be.
(B)
The option under paragraph (1), including relevant dates and associated time frames relating to such option.
(C)
Any other options of which the Secretary may be aware for such individual to so appeal, including relevant dates and associated time frames relating to any such other options.
(D)
Any options for such individual to reapply for such enrollment, including relevant dates and associated time frames relating to any such options.
(b)
Publicly available information
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall make publicly available on a website of the Department of Homeland Security the following:
(1)
Information relating to the options referred to in subparagraphs (B) through (D) of subsection (a)(2).
(2)
An identification of a telephone number of the Department that an individual pursuing an appeal under subsection (a)(1) may call for information relating to such appeal, including the status of such appeal.
(c)
Status updates
If an individual appeals through TRIP regarding the denial, suspension, or early termination of such individual’s enrollment in a program specified in subsection (d), not less than frequently than every 30 days during the period in which such appeal is pending, the Secretary shall provide in writing to such individual an update on the status of such appeal.
(d)
Programs specified
A program specified in this subsection is any of the following:
(1)
The PreCheck Program under section 44919 of title 49, United States Code.
(2)
The Global Entry, SENTRI, and FAST programs under subsection (k) of section 7208 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
Public Law 108–458
;
8 U.S.C. 1365b
).
(3)
The NEXUS program under section 404 of the Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry Reform Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–173
;
8 U.S.C. 1753
).
(4)
The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card program under section 418 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 218
).
