1.
Short title
This subtitle may be cited as the
International Financial Access Improvements Act
.
2.
Improvements by countries in combating narcotics-related money laundering
(a)
In general
Section 489(a)(7) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(7)
) is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
paragraph (3)(D)
and inserting
paragraph (3)(C)
; and
(2)
by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
(D)
Where the information is available, examples of improvements in each country related to the findings described in each of clauses (i) through (viii) of subparagraph (C) including—
(i)
actions taken by the country due to the adoption of law and regulations considered essential to prevent narcotics-related money laundering;
(ii)
enhanced enforcement actions taken by the country, such as regulatory penalties, criminal prosecutions and convictions, and asset seizures and forfeitures;
(iii)
status changes in financial crime-related evaluations by international standards-setting bodies;
(iv)
efforts to enhance the prevention of narcotics-related money laundering; and
(v)
if applicable, bilateral, multilateral, and regional initiatives that have been undertaken to prevent narcotics-related money laundering.
.
(b)
Additional requirements for money laundering issues
In making each report required under section 489(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended by subsection (a), the President shall—
(1)
consult with the Secretary of the Treasury on any parts of the report relating to money laundering; and
(2)
prepare a separate volume of the report containing all items relating to money laundering, and submit a copy of such separate volume to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
(c)
Report on consistency of BSA examinations
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Treasury shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section—
(A)
consult with the Federal banking agencies, the Financial Institutions Examination Council, and the Bank Secrecy Act Advisory Group to determine how to build more consistent Bank Secrecy Act exams across such agencies; and
(B)
submit to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, a report that describes steps the Secretary of the Treasury is taking to build more consistent Bank Secrecy Act exams across such agencies based on the consultation required under subparagraph (A).
(2)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Bank Secrecy Act
The term
Bank Secrecy Act
means—
(i)
section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (
12 U.S.C. 1829b
);
(ii)
chapter 2 of title I of
Public Law 91–508
(
12 U.S.C. 1951 et seq.
); and
(iii)
subchapter II of
chapter 53
of title 31, United States Code.
(B)
Federal banking agency
The term
Federal banking agency
has the meaning given the term in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
