1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding Cybersecurity Workforce Act of 2025
.
2.
Expansion of CISA’s Cybersecurity Education and Training Assistance Program
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security shall establish within the Cybersecurity Education and Training Assistance Program of the Agency a program (in this section referred to as the
Program
) to promote the cybersecurity field to disadvantaged communities, including older individuals, racial and ethnic minorities, people with disabilities, geographically diverse communities, socioeconomically diverse communities, women, individuals from nontraditional educational paths, individuals who are veterans, and individuals who were formerly incarcerated.
(b)
Outreach
To carry out subsection (a) and promote awareness of the Program, the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security shall conduct outreach to different institutions to raise awareness of and promote the cybersecurity workforce, including to educators, unions, chambers of commerce, State and local workforce development offices, private sector entities, community colleges, parents of K-12 students, and other institutions as the Director determines appropriate.
(c)
Applicability
The Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security shall tailor the Program to the unique needs of each region and sector across the United States.
(d)
Annual reports
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the efficacy of the Program, including how the Program is impacting the general characteristics of the cyber workforce throughout the United States, and suggestions for Congress regarding how to improve the Program.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year thereafter through 2031.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Disability
The term
disability
means an intellectual or developmental disability.
(2)
Geographically diverse
The term
geographically diverse
means that the participants should be represented as close as possible to an equal spread of high-density urban areas, suburban areas, and rural areas of the United States or over-represent low-income communities.
(3)
Nontraditional educational path
The term
nontraditional educational path
means a graduate of any of the following:
(A)
A two year degree program, trade school, or community college.
(B)
A historically Black college or university.
(C)
A Hispanic-serving institution (as such term is defined in section 502(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1101a(a)
)).
(D)
A Tribal College or University (as such term is defined in section 316(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)
)).
(E)
An Alaska Native-serving institution (as such term is defined in section 317(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1059d(b)
)).
(F)
A Native Hawaiian-serving institution (as such term is defined in section 317(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1059d(b)
)).
(G)
A Predominantly Black Institution (as such term is defined in section 318(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1059e(b)
)).
(H)
A Native American-serving, nontribal institution (as such term is defined in section 319(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1059f(b)
)).
(I)
An Asian-American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution (as such term is defined in section 320(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1059g(b)
)).
(4)
Older
The term
older
means an individual who has attained the age of 40 or older as of the date on which such individual is scheduled to begin participation in the Program.
(5)
Racial and ethnic minority
The term
racial and ethnic minority
means Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Asian American, or Native American.
(6)
Socioeconomically diverse
The term
socioeconomically diverse
means a spread of income levels, including low-income individuals.
