1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting Effective and Empowering Recovery Services in Medicare Act of 2025
or the
PEERS Act of 2025
.
2.
Inclusion of peer support services at certain facilities under the Medicare program
(a)
Services
(1)
Inclusion at community mental health centers
Section 1832(a)(2)(J) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395k(a)(2)(J)
) is amended by striking
and intensive outpatient services
and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting
, intensive outpatient services, and peer support services (as defined in section 1861(nnn)(1)) provided by a community mental health center (as defined in section 1861(ff)(3)(B)).
.
(2)
Inclusion as RHC and FQHC services
Section 1861(aa)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395x(aa)(1)(B)
) is amended—
(A)
by striking
or by a mental
and inserting
by a mental
; and
(B)
by inserting
or by a peer support specialist (as defined in subsection (nnn)(2))
after
subsection (ll)(4)),
.
(b)
Definition
Section 1861 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395x
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(nnn)
Peer support services and peer support specialist
(1)
Peer support services
The term
peer support services
means emotional, informational, instrumental, and social and community support services—
(A)
furnished—
(i)
by a Federally qualified health center, a rural health clinic, a community mental health center, or a certified community behavioral health clinic (as described in section 223 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014), using a peer support specialist; and
(ii)
to an individual who has been diagnosed with a mental health condition or substance use disorder; and
(B)
that are designed to assist such individual in achieving recovery, integration in the community, self-empowerment, and self-determination (as specified by the Secretary).
(2)
Peer support specialist
The term
peer support specialist
means an individual who—
(A)
is recovering from a mental health or substance use condition; and
(B)
is certified as qualified to furnish peer support services under a certification process consistent with the National Practice Guidelines for Peer Supporters and inclusive of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Core Competencies for Peer Workers in Behavioral Health Settings (as established by the State in which such individual furnishes such services or under such certification process determined appropriate by the Secretary).
.
(c)
Exclusion modification
Section 1862(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395y(a)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (O), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (P), by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting
, and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(Q)
in the case of peer support services (as defined in section 1861(nnn(1))), which are not furnished by a rural health clinic, a Federally qualified health center, a community mental health center, or a certified community behavioral health clinic (as described in section 223 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014);
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to items and services furnished on or after January 1, 2027.
