1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
SNAP BACK Act.
2.
Appropriation
(a)
In General
In fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year thereafter, for any period during which interim continuing appropriations or full-year appropriations for that fiscal year have not been enacted for the Department of Agriculture, there are appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture, such sums as are necessary to provide uninterrupted benefits under—
(1)
the supplemental nutrition assistance program established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C 2011 et seq.); and
(2)
the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children established by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 1786
).
3.
Requirement to release funds
(a)
Immediate obligation of funds
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Agriculture shall, immediately upon enactment of this Act, obligate and make available all funds appropriated by Congress for—
(1)
the supplemental nutrition assistance program; and
(2)
the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children.
(b)
Prohibition on withholding
No officer or employee of the executive branch, including the Office of Management and Budget, or U.S. Department of Agriculture may withhold, delay, or otherwise impede the release or obligation of such funds for any reason not explicitly authorized by statute.
(c)
Requirement to enroll
(1)
Continued enrollment
The Secretary of Agriculture shall ensure that, all State agencies administering SNAP or WIC continue to accept, process, and approve applications for individuals and households that meet the statutory eligibility requirements for such programs.
(2)
Access to benefits
Individuals determined eligible under paragraph (1) shall receive benefits as soon as funds are available, and no later than five days after the Secretary obligates the funds made available under subsection (a).
(3)
Prohibition on enrollment freeze
No Federal or State official may institute an enrollment freeze, waiting list, or other restriction on participation in SNAP or WIC due to any delay or withholding of funds.
4.
Continuity of EBT card access and processing
(a)
Uninterrupted operation
The Secretary of Agriculture shall ensure the uninterrupted operation and functionality of all Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) systems used to distribute SNAP and WIC benefits, including during any lapse in appropriations or due to an administrative delay.
(b)
Timely disbursement
State agencies administering SNAP or WIC shall, upon receipt of Federal funds, immediately load benefits onto EBT cards for eligible households without additional delay.
(c)
Prohibition on suspension of benefits
No Federal or State agency may suspend, deactivate, or otherwise restrict the use of EBT cards due to any temporary funding delay.
5.
Reimbursement of States or tribes
(a)
Reimbursement of State or Tribe
The Secretary of Agriculture shall reimburse any State of federally recognized American Indian Tribe that makes an emergency appropriation of State or tribal funds to cover a lapse in Federal funding for these programs up to the amount expended by the State or tribe.
