1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
CBP Canine Home Kenneling Pilot Act
.
2.
Pilot program on canine home kenneling program
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Executive Assistant Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s (CBP) Office of Field Operations (OFO) shall establish a canine home kenneling pilot program (in this section referred to as the
pilot program
) to assess whether canine home kenneling would benefit the OFO, including both canine handlers and canines.
(b)
Guidance
(1)
In general
Prior to establishing the pilot program, the Executive Assistant Commissioner shall distribute written guidance for Field Offices of OFO to use while implementing the pilot program.
(2)
Consultation
In developing the guidance referred to in paragraph (1), the Executive Assistant Commissioner shall consult with the following entities:
(A)
Components of the Department of Homeland Security that utilize home kenneling.
(B)
The Office of Health Security of the Department of Homeland Security.
(C)
Representatives of the National Treasury Employees Union.
(c)
Training
Prior to establishing the pilot program, the Executive Assistant Commissioner shall carry out the following:
(1)
Establish training for canine handlers participating in the pilot program to take full responsibility of a canine’s daily care, including feeding, exercise, and medical needs.
(2)
Disseminate best practices for the integration of a working canine into the canine handler’s residence.
(d)
Requirements
In carrying out the pilot program, the Executive Assistant Commissioner shall carry out the following:
(1)
Ensure that not fewer than ten ports of entry participate in the pilot program.
(2)
Ensure that canines assigned to seaports, airports, and land ports of entry in both urban and rural locations participate in the pilot program.
(3)
Provide for the participation of canine handlers on a voluntary basis.
(4)
Continue the pilot program for a period of not less than two years.
(5)
Terminate the pilot program not more than three years after the establishment of the pilot program.
(e)
Briefing and report to Congress
(1)
Briefing
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Executive Assistant Commissioner shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing describing the guidance, training, and requirements for the pilot program.
(2)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the termination of the pilot program, the Executive Assistant Commissioner shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes the following:
(A)
Information relating to the number and location of participating canine teams.
(B)
Findings of the pilot program, including a cost-benefit, job performance, health, and wellbeing analysis comparing use of home kenneling with centralized kenneling practices.
(C)
Recommendations regarding the continued use of home kenneling for CBP Office of Field Operations.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Homeland Security in the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs in the Senate.
(2)
Home kenneling
The term
home kenneling
means the practice whereby canines used for Federal law enforcement purposes are housed and cared for at the residences of their assigned handlers instead of a centralized facility owned or contracted by a Federal agency.
