1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Homes from Trains Act of 2025
.
2.
Grant program to construct barriers near rail lines adjacent to a residential structure
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a program to provide grants to eligible recipients to design or construct a barrier to mitigate rail activity that may negatively impact a residential structure or its use, including—
(1)
damage caused by a train derailment;
(2)
noise caused by a train; and
(3)
vibrations caused by a train.
(b)
Use of funds
A grant provided under this section may be used to design or construct a barrier located—
(1)
adjacent to a rail line; and
(2)
between the rail line and any residential area that—
(A)
includes structures; and
(B)
is affected, or potentially affected, by any rail activity described in subsection (a).
(c)
Eligible recipients
The Secretary may make a grant under the program established in subsection (a) to the following:
(1)
A State.
(2)
A group of States.
(3)
An Interstate Compact.
(4)
A public agency or publicly chartered authority established by one or more States.
(5)
A political subdivision of a State.
(6)
Amtrak or another rail carrier that provides intercity rail passenger transportation.
(7)
A Class II railroad or Class III railroad or a holding company of a Class II or Class III railroad, or an association representing a Class II or III railroad.
(8)
Any rail carrier in partnership with one or more entities described in paragraphs (1) through (5).
(d)
Applications
To be eligible for a grant under the program established in subsection (a), an entity described in subsection (c) shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(e)
State defined
In this section, the term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the program established in subsection (a) $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2030.
