1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transparency Requirements for Aircraft Carriers to Know Immigration Conduct and Enforcement Act
or the
TRACK ICE Act
.
2.
Limitation on FAA privacy programs for immigration aircraft operators
Section 44114 of title 49, United States Code, is amendedГўВҖВ”
(1)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
(d)
Applicability to certain aircraft operations
A private aircraft owner or operator shall not be eligible for withholding of information under subsections (a) and (b) for any aircraft operation that isГўВҖВ”
(1)
operated by, under contract or subcontract with, or on behalf of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement or Customs and Border Protection;
(2)
used for the purpose of detention, deportation, or the transport of individuals in the custody of the Secretary of Homeland Security in connection with the enforcement of the immigration laws (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
)); and
(3)
receives Federal funding or any other financial assistance for operation described in paragraphs (1) and (2).
.
3.
Transparency of flight data
(a)
In general
Not later than 72 hours after each aircraft operation carried out by the Department of Homeland Security, including U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement or Customs and Border Protection, or the Coast Guard for the purpose of detention, deportation, or the transport of individuals in the custody of the Secretary of Homeland Security in connection with the enforcement of the immigration laws (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
)), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall publish flight data for such aircraft operation in a manner that is accessible to the public.
(b)
Flight data defined
In this section, the term
flight data
includesГўВҖВ”
(1)
the date and time of departure at origin airport;
(2)
the date and time of arrival at arrival airport;
(3)
the departure airportГўВҖВҷs International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) code and the ICE Air mission designation;
(4)
the arrival airportГўВҖВҷs ICAO code and the ICE Air mission designation;
(5)
the aircraft registration number;
(6)
the ICAO aircraft identification code;
(7)
the number of individuals detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement or other immigration enforcement agency who boarded and deplaned at each departure and arrival location; and
(8)
demographic data for each detainee transported on each individual departure and arrival flight leg (identified by ICAO airport codes), includingГўВҖВ”
(A)
nationality;
(B)
sex;
(C)
age category (grouped as 0ГўВҖВ“10; 11ГўВҖВ“17; 18ГўВҖВ“50; 51+);
(D)
family composition category (specifying, at a minimum, single adult, unaccompanied child, or family unit); and
(E)
the type and quantity of any restraints used for the duration of the flights on each detained individual, such as handcuffs, shackles on arms and legs, or full-body restraint device.
