1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Rosie the Riveter Day Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
National Rosie the Riveter Day is a collective national effort to raise awareness of the more than 6,000,000 American women who joined the workforce during World War II.
(2)
The people of the United States have chosen to honor women workers who contributed to the home front during World War II, including through the award of a Congressional Gold Medal.
(3)
These women left their homes to work or volunteer full-time in factories, farms, shipyards, airplane factories, banks, and other institutions in support of the war effort.
(4)
These women worked with the United Service Organizations and the American Red Cross, drove trucks, riveted airplane parts, collected critical materials, rolled bandages, and served on rationing boards.
(5)
These women in the workforce persevered often in the face of harassment, discrimination, and prejudice to support their country and families in a time of great need.
(6)
Women of color overcame long-held policies of discrimination and racial segregation to make significant contributions to the war effort and workforce.
(7)
Our
Rosie the Riveters,
the American women who worked and sacrificed during World War II, are a testament to women’s empowerment and invaluable contribution to the war effort, inspiring future generations of women and girls.
(8)
It is fitting and proper to recognize and preserve the history and legacy of working women, including volunteer women, during World War II to promote cooperation and fellowship among such women and their descendants.
(9)
These women and their descendants wish to further the advancement of patriotic ideas, excellence in the workplace, and loyalty to the United States of America.
(10)
March 21, during Women’s History Month, would be an appropriate date to designate as
National Rosie the Riveter Day
.
3.
Designation of National Rosie the Riveter Day
(a)
In general
Chapter 1
of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
149.
National Rosie the Riveter Day
The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation—
(1)
calling on the people of the United States to observe National Rosie the Riveter Day with appropriate ceremonies and activities; and
(2)
urging civil and educational authorities of States, territorial, tribal, and local governments to observe National Rosie the Riveter Day through appropriate programs and activities.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The table of sections for such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
149. National Rosie the Riveter Day.
.
