1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DPA Emerging Technology Act of 2026
.
2.
Modifications to the Defense Production Act Committee
Section 722 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4567
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (g) and (h), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsections:
(d)
Meetings
The Committee shall meet at least twice per year, and at other such times as determined necessary by the Chairperson of the Committee.
(e)
Authority To establish subcommittees
The Chairperson of the Committee may establish and convene such additional subcommittees of the Committee as the Chairperson determines appropriate to improve coordination among member agencies of the Committee regarding particular activities authorized under this Act.
(f)
Emerging technology subcommittee
(1)
Establishment
There is established within the Committee a Subcommittee on Emerging Technology.
(2)
Activities
The Subcommittee on Emerging Technology shall analyze—
(A)
the effects, including potential benefits, of covered technology on activities determined essential to meet national defense requirements; and
(B)
how covered technology can be used within a single industry or Federal agency, or across industries and Federal agencies, to improve efficiencies, encourage innovation, and address supply chain gaps.
(3)
Covered technology
For purposes of this paragraph, the Subcommittee shall establish a definition for the term
covered technology
and, in establishing such definition, shall consider including technologies in the fields of—
(A)
artificial intelligence and robotics;
(B)
biotechnology;
(C)
cryptography and quantum computing;
(D)
materials science;
(E)
semiconductors; and
(F)
space.
.
3.
Report on potential strategic reserve of biological inputs
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Subcommittee on Emerging Technology of the Defense Production Act Committee (established under section 722 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4567
), as amended by this Act) shall submit to Congress an evaluation of the potential benefits and drawbacks, and any resources required, in establishing a strategic reserve of critical biomanufacturing essential to meet national defense requirements under the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.
).
4.
Short title correction
The first undesignated section of the the Defense Production Act of 1950 is amended, effective on the date of enactment of such Act, by striking
cited as ‘the Defense
and inserting
cited as the ‘Defense
.
