1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Task forces to Oppose Predatory Scams Against Seniors Act
or the
STOP Scams Against Seniors Act
.
2.
Use of Byrne funds for elder justice task forces
(a)
In general
Section 501(a)(1) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10152(a)(1)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(J)
Establishment, operation, and implementation of elder justice task forces to address financial exploitation, scams, and fraud that primarily targets individuals who are 60 years of age or older, which task forces may include or coordinate with State and local law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, adult protective services professionals, and Federal agencies (including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice, and the United States Secret Service).
.
(b)
Reports
Subpart I of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10151 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
510.
Reports on elder justice task forces
(a)
Recipient report
A recipient of a grant under this part that uses such grant for the purpose described in subparagraph (J) of section 501(a)(1) shall include along with any other report required to be submitted under this part (except for the reports required under section 508) the following:
(1)
The number of cases initiated by the elder justice task force established using such funds during the grant period.
(2)
The number of cases that were fully investigated and brought to conclusion during such period.
(3)
The number of victims of fraud to whom the elder justice task force provided support, legal assistance, or restitution during such period.
(4)
For each victim described in paragraph (3) and case described in paragraph (1), the type of scam and the method the perpetrators used to make initial contact with the victim.
(5)
For each victim described in paragraph (3) and case described in paragraph (1), any indicator of organized or transnational criminal involvement.
(b)
Attorney General rep
ort
On an annual basis, the Attorney General shall submit to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate a report that contains a summary of the information received under subsection (a).
.
