1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Homeland Security Climate Change Coordination Act
.
2.
DHS climate coordinating council
(a)
In general
Subtitle H of Title VIII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 451 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
890E.
Climate coordinating council.
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Department a council to coordinate departmental efforts to identify, address, and mitigate cross-functional impacts of global climate change with respect to the Department’s programs, operations, missions, assets, and personnel (in this section referred to as the
council
).
(b)
Size; composition
The council shall be comprised of not fewer than 20 members. Such members shall include senior officials from the following:
(1)
The Office for Strategy, Policy, and Plans.
(2)
The Office of Regulatory Affairs.
(3)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(4)
The Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.
(5)
The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(6)
The Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers.
(7)
The Office of Intelligence and Analysis.
(8)
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
(9)
The Management Directorate.
(10)
The Office of Partnership and Engagement.
(11)
The Office of Public Affairs.
(12)
The Office of Operations Coordination.
(13)
The Office of Privacy.
(14)
The Science and Technology Directorate.
(15)
The Transportation Security Administration.
(16)
The United States Coast Guard.
(17)
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.
(18)
The United States Secret Service.
(19)
Any other office or component of the Department the Secretary determines appropriate.
(c)
Leadership
The Secretary shall designate a senior official from among the entities specified in subsection (b) to lead the council.
(d)
Duties
The council shall carry out the following:
(1)
Identify cross-functional impacts of global climate change with respect to the Department’s programs, operations, missions, assets, and personnel.
(2)
Address and mitigate cross-functional impacts of global climate change to the Department by, among other things, developing risk-based climate change strategies and frameworks.
(3)
Make recommendations, as appropriate, for organizational and resource realignments, as necessary, to support the Department’s risk-based climate change strategies and frameworks.
(4)
Oversee the implementation of departmental actions as required under Executive Order 14008, Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad, and other related or successor orders.
(e)
Reports
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section and annually thereafter for ten years, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, a report regarding the actions taken pursuant to this section.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after item relating to section 890D the following new item:
Sec. 890E. Climate coordinating council.
.
