1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Halting All Parades for Presidents’ Yearly Birthdays, It Risks Taxpayer Harm, Damages, And Your Budget Act
or the
HAPPY BIRTHDAY Budget Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Military parades are traditionally reserved for national celebrations, commemorations of military service, or significant public occasions, not personal milestones such as birthdays.
(2)
A military parade previously considered in President Donald J. Trump’s first term was canceled due to cost concerns, including costs to the military of $92 million and public safety costs to the District of Columbia of over $21 million.
(3)
Heavy military vehicles risk causing damage to District of Columbia roads, which are not designed to support such weight, requiring taxpayer-funded repairs.
(4)
President Trump has conducted mass layoffs and firings in the Federal Government through the so-called “Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE)” under the guise of “saving taxpayer money”.
(5)
The District of Columbia is often not fully reimbursed for expenses incurred during Federal events, placing an undue financial burden on local agencies and taxpayers.
(6)
The Washington City Paper reported that President Trump has expressed interest in holding a military parade in the District of Columbia on June 14, 2025, as a personal birthday celebration.
(7)
While June 14, 2025, is the United States Army’s 250th birthday and Flag Day, it is also President Donald J. Trump’s 79th birthday.
(8)
The U.S. Army has never held a military parade to celebrate its own birthday, and the Army’s 250th anniversary celebration has been in the planning stages for several years with no plans for a parade in the District of Columbia.
(9)
It is unlikely that President Trump will include an air, sea, or terrestrial extravaganza to celebrate the birthdays of the other military branches, further highlighting the personal nature of the proposed celebration.
3.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that public funds should be used to support the well-being and security of the American people and not expended on displays of military force for personal glorification.
4.
Prohibition on use of funds for military parade in District of Columbia
No Federal funds may be obligated or expended for the planning, execution, security, transportation, or infrastructure support of any military parade in the District of Columbia that is primarily intended to celebrate the birthday, personal milestone, or private interest of any individual, including President Donald J. Trump.
5.
Alternative birthday celebrations
(a)
Alternative celebrations
Congress encourages President Trump to consider alternative birthday celebrations that do not involve armored vehicles or fighter jets, such as cake, golf, or bingo night.
(b)
Birthday wishes
In recognition of his birthday, Congress extends a sincere
Happy Birthday
to Donald J. Trump, free of charge, and encourages all Americans who wish to send birthday wishes to the President to do so through the United States Postal Service, the only service expressly authorized in the Constitution of the United States for the transmission of personal correspondence, where neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.
