1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Anonymity in Immigration Enforcement Act of 2025
.
2.
Requirement regarding identification of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
Except as provided in section 3, an agent conducting an enforcement operation in the United States—
(1)
may not wear a facial covering; and
(2)
shall wear a garment clearly identifying the name of the agent and their affiliation with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
3.
Exceptions
(a)
Exemption
Section 2 shall not apply to an agent who is responding to an imminent threat to life or serious bodily harm or is required to wear protective gear for safety or medical purposes.
(b)
Review
Not later than 48 hours after an agent uses an exemption under subsection (a), the agent’s supervisor shall document and review the use of such exemption to determine whether it was appropriate, and if the supervisor determines that such use was inappropriate, initiate disciplinary review in accordance with the procedures under section 4(a).
4.
Compliance and enforcement
(a)
Procedures
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish procedures to ensure compliance with this Act, which shall include the following:
(1)
Procedures to ensure that any agent who violates this Act shall be subject to disciplinary review and possible sanctions.
(2)
Procedures for the acceptance and review of complaints alleging violations of this Act by the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties of the Department of Homeland Security.
(b)
Report
On an annual basis, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on—
(1)
any disciplinary actions imposed under subsection (a)(1) during the previous year; and
(2)
any complaints received under subsection (a)(2) during the previous year, including a description of the review of each such complaint, and any action taken as a result of such a complaint.
5.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
In general
Except as otherwise provided, the terms in this Act have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
).
(2)
Agent
The term
agent
means any employee, officer, or contractor acting under the authority of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
(3)
Enforcement operation
The term
enforcement operation
means any enforcement activity under the immigration laws, including an arrest, a detention, a questioning, a raid, or an investigation (whether on public or private property) carried out by an agent.
(4)
Facial covering
The term
facial covering
means any mask, garment, helmet, or other item that conceals or obscures the facial identity of an individual, including a balaclava, a tactical mask, or any face-shielding item.
(5)
United States
The term
United States
means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and territories and possessions of the United States.
6.
Severability
If any provision of this Act, or the application of such provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of the Act, and the application of the remaining provisions, shall not be affected.
7.
Effective date
This Act shall take effect on the date that is 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
