1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Magnus White and Safe Streets for Everyone Act of 2026
.
2.
Vehicle standard for automatic emergency braking
Section 30129 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b), by inserting
The compliance date of such final rule shall not be later than September 1, 2029.
after the period at the end; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Vulnerable Road User Safety
(1)
Amended rule
Except as provided in paragraph (2) and not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall initiate a rulemaking process to amend the rule promulgated pursuant to subsection (a),
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Automatic Emergency Braking Systems for Light Vehicles,
(89 Fed. Reg. 39686; May 9, 2024) to ensure that an automatic emergency braking system installed in any passenger motor vehicle manufactured for sale in the United States—
(A)
functions in daylight and low light conditions;
(B)
functions at the entire range of speeds specified in such rule for pedestrian automatic emergency braking; and
(C)
detects and responds to a bicyclist, motorcyclist, other cyclist, or other vulnerable road user, including with respect to the entire range of colors and complexions presented by skin, clothing, and protective gear.
(2)
Restriction
Any amendment made to the rule pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) may not alter any maximum speed at which an automatic emergency braking system may operate as specified in such rule as of May 9, 2024.
(3)
Deadline for final rule
Not later than 2 years after the date on which the rulemaking process is initiated pursuant to paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall issue a final revised rule in accordance with this subsection.
(4)
Compliance date
The compliance date of the revised rule issued pursuant to paragraph (3) shall be not later than 2 years after the date on which the revised rule is issued.
(5)
Vulnerable road user defined
In this subsection, the term
vulnerable road user
—
(A)
means any individual who is not an occupant of a motor vehicle with more than 3 wheels; and
(B)
includes—
(i)
pedestrians;
(ii)
bicyclists;
(iii)
motorcyclists;
(iv)
individuals traveling in wheelchairs; and
(v)
riders or occupants of other transport vehicles that are not motor vehicles, including all-terrain vehicles and tractors.
.
