1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Reporting to Prevent Hate Act of 2025
.
2.
Requirement to credibly report hate crimes
Section 505 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10156
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(j)
Evaluation for reporting on hate crimes
Beginning not later than three years after the date of the enactment of this Act and from the data acquired by the Attorney General in accordance with the Hate Crimes Statistics Act (
34 U.S.C. 41305
), the Attorney General shall establish a method of evaluating and use such method to evaluate whether a covered jurisdiction has credibly reporting hate crimes, including whether, for each year, a covered jurisdiction—
(1)
has not reported hate crime data to the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
(2)
has reported zero hate crime incidents to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(k)
Eligibility
(1)
In general
A covered jurisdiction that is found not to have credibly reported hate crimes following an evaluation pursuant to subsection (j) shall not be eligible for an allocation under this section.
(2)
Exception
A covered jurisdiction that is found not to have credibly reported hate crimes following an evaluation pursuant to subsection (j) shall not be subject to a penalty under paragraph (1) if the Attorney General certifies that the covered jurisdiction has conducted significant community public education and awareness initiatives on hate crimes.
(l)
Annual report
Each year the Attorney General shall publish on the internet website of the Department of Justice a report on the covered jurisdictions certified under subsection (k)(2).
(m)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered jurisdiction
The term
covered jurisdiction
means a unit of local government that has a requested a grant under this subpart and has a population of over 100,000 people.
(2)
Hate crime
The term
hate crime
means—
(A)
an act described in section 1(b)(1) of the Hate Crime Statistics Act ((34 U.S.C. 41305(1)(b)(1)); and
(B)
an act in violation of sections 241, 245, 247, or 249 of title 18, United States Code.
(3)
Significant community public education and awareness initiatives on hate crimes
The term
significant community public education and awareness initiatives on hate crimes
means that a covered jurisdiction—
(A)
has—
(i)
made substantial progress towards comprehensive reporting hate crimes;
(ii)
adopted a policy on identifying, investigating, and reporting hate crimes; and
(iii)
developed a standardized system of collecting, analyzing, and reporting hate crimes to the National Incident-Based Reporting System of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
(B)
may—
(i)
establish a unit or liaison specialized in identifying, investigating, and reporting hate crimes and engaging in community relations functions related to preventing hate crimes; or
(ii)
conduct an ongoing and regular public meetings or educational forums on the impact of hate crimes, services available to victims of hate crimes, and any relevant Federal, State, or local laws related to hate crimes.
.
