1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting Projects to Unleash Residential Housing Act
or the
SPUR Housing Act
.
2.
Grant program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall, not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act establish a grant program to provide amounts to developers that such developers may use to offset costs such developer accrues associated with—
(1)
State and local taxes associated with the building of housing developments; and
(2)
impact fees imposed by States and units of local government in association with the building of housing developments.
(b)
Application
To be eligible to receive amounts under this section an developer shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may reasonably require.
(c)
Additional eligibility requirements
To be eligible to receive amounts under this section, an developer shall have—
(1)
all approvals required from the State government and each unit of local government with jurisdiction over the area in which developer intends to build a housing development; and
(2)
commitments from the State government and each unit of local government with jurisdiction over the area in which developer intends to build a housing development that the State government and each unit of local government shall reduce the property taxes associated with the housing developments to be built by the developer by not less than 50 percent.
(d)
Selection
When selecting developers to receive amounts under this section the Secretary shall prioritize giving grants to developers who are building housing developments that, as determined by the Secretary—
(1)
will increase the amount of affordable housing;
(2)
are feasible;
(3)
are able to begin building within 1 year of the date on which the eligible developer submitted an application;
(4)
are to be located in a priority housing area, as identified by the Secretary using housing market indicators and the severe housing cost burden data from the American Community Survey conducted by the Bureau of the Census;
(5)
that will offer affordable or mixed-income housing units;
(6)
are transit-oriented developments or located near employment hubs;
(7)
will utilize infill sites within urban growth boundaries;
(8)
will target workforce housing needs;
(9)
will include senior-friendly units and accessible units;
(10)
will employ adaptive reuse or rehabilitation of existing structures; and
(11)
will include supportive housing elements for vulnerable populations.
(e)
Amount of grant
The Secretary shall provide, each year, to each developer to whom the Secretary selects to receive a grant under this section, a grant in an amount equal to the lesser of—
(1)
50 percent of the total amount of the taxes and impact fees to be imposed on the developer by the State government and each unit of local government with jurisdiction over the area in which developer intends to build a housing development in association with the building such housing development; or
(2)
$150,000.
(f)
Term of grant
The Secretary shall provide grants to each developer selected to receive a grant under this section for 5 years, unless such developer does not have the commitments from the State government and units of local government that are required under subsection (c) for each of those 5 years.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $300,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2027 through fiscal 2031 to carry out this section.
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Impact fee
The term
impact fee
means a charge imposed by a local government on a new housing development to help pay for public infrastructure and services needed because of such housing development.
(2)
Developer
The term
developer
means a person that plans, finances, and oversees the creation or redevelopment of real estate or infrastructure projects, from initial concept through completion.
(3)
Housing development
The term
housing development
means a project involving the building or rehabilitation of 5 or more or more residential housing units and includes mixed-use housing developments.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
