1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Providing Useful Relief for Enhanced Water Act
or the
PURE Water Act
.
2.
Water filtration credit
(a)
In general
Subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 25E the following new section:
25F.
Water filtration credit
(a)
Allowance of credit
In the case of an individual, there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount equal to the sum of—
(1)
20 percent of qualified primary residence filtration expenditures, and
(2)
10 percent of qualified non-primary residence filtration expenditures.
(b)
Maximum credit
The credit allowed under subsection (a) for any taxable year shall not exceed $2,500.
(c)
Carryforward of unused credit
If the credit allowable under subsection (a) exceeds the limitation imposed by subsection (b), such excess shall be carried to the succeeding taxable year and added to the credit allowable under subsection (a) for such succeeding taxable year.
(d)
Definitions
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Qualified primary residence filtration expenditure
The term
qualified primary residence filtration expenditure
means an expenditure for a qualified water filter for use in a dwelling unit located in the United States and used as a the primary residence of the taxpayer.
(2)
Qualified non-primary residence filtration expenditure
The term
qualified non-primary residence filtration expenditure
means an expenditure for a qualified water filter for use in a dwelling unit located in the United States and used as a secondary residence of the taxpayer.
(3)
Qualified water filter
For purposes of this section, the term
qualified water filter
—
(A)
means a home water filtration system the purpose of which is to remove at least 90 percent of lead, PFAS, and PFOAS from drinking water, and
(B)
does not include maintenance costs or replacement parts for such filtration system.
(4)
PFAS
The term
PFAS
means per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances that contain at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
(5)
PFOA
The term
PFOA
means perfluorooctanoic acid.
(e)
Basis adjustment
For purposes of this subtitle, if a credit is allowed under this section for any expenditure with respect to any property, the increase in the basis of such property which would (but for this subsection) result from such expenditure shall be reduced by the amount of the credit so allowed.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 25E the following new item:
Sec. 25F. Water filtration credit.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024.
