Section 1. Establishment. There is hereby established   ("Committee"). The   shall consist of up to 20 members appointed by the President from the public and private sectors. Each member of the   shall be a person who, as a result of his or her training, experience, and attainments, is well qualified to appraise the quality of nominations for selection of rivers as   submitted by communities across the country. The expertise of members of the   shall be in areas such as natural, cultural, and historic resources; water quality; public health; scenic and recreation interests; tourism and economic development interests; industry; and agriculture. The President shall designate a   from among the members of the  .

 . 2. (a) The   shall review nominations from communities and recommend to the President up to 20 rivers for consideration for designation as  . From the rivers recommended for consideration, the President shall designate ten as  .

(b) In its review of nominations submitted by communities, the   shall provide its assessment of:

(1) The scope of each nomination's application and the adequacy of its design to achieve the community's goals;

(2) Whether the natural, economic (including agricultural), scenic, historic, cultural, and/or recreational resources featured in the application are distinctive or unique;

(3) The extent to which the community's plan of action is clearly defined and the extent to which the plan addresses all three   objectives—natural resource and environmental protection, economic revitalization, and historic and cultural preservation— either through planned actions or past accomplishments, as well as any other characteristics of the proposals that distinguish a nomination, such as:

(A) Community vision and partnership;

(B) Sustainability of products and projects, including project maintenance;

(C) Resources, both committed and anticipated, including means of generating additional support from both private and public sources;

(D) Anticipated Federal role as defined by the applicants;

(E) Schedule or timeline;

(F) Citizen involvement;

(G) Public education relating to the designation of the river;

(H) Logistical support, operating procedures, and policies;

(I) Prior accomplishments, if relevant, and relationship to existing plans and projects in the area; and

(J) Measures of performance.

(4) The strength and diversity of support for the nomination and plan of action as evidenced by letters from local and   governments,   tribes, elected officials, any and all parties who participate in the life and health of the area to be nominated, or who have an interest in the economic life and cultural and environmental vigor of the involved community.

(c) The   also should seek to recommend the selection of rivers that as a group:

(1) Represent the natural, historic, cultural, social, economic, and agricultural diversity of   rivers;

(2) Showcase a variety of stream sizes and an assortment of urban, rural, and mixed settings from around the country, including both relatively pristine and degraded rivers;

(3) Highlight a variety of innovative programs in such areas as historic preservation, sustainable development through tourism, wildlife management, fisheries restoration, recreation, community revitalization, agricultural practices, and flood plain and watershed management;

(4) Include community efforts in early stages of development as well as those that are more well established; and

(5) Stand to benefit from targeted Federal assistance.

(d) The   shall report its recommendations for selection of rivers as   to the President through  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide the  , to the extent practicable and permitted by law, such information with respect to river revitalization as the   requires to fulfill its functions.

(b) The   shall be supported both administratively and financially by the Secretary of  , acting through the Assistant Secretary of  .

 . 4. General. The   shall terminate   from the date of this order. The Chair of the Committee, with the approval of the designated Federal officer, shall call meetings of  .
