Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established     and   ("Special Oversight Board"). The Special Oversight Board shall be composed of not more than seven members appointed by the President. The members of the Special Oversight Board shall have expertise relevant to the functions of   and shall not be full-time officials or employees of the executive branch of  .

(b) The President shall designate a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson from among the members of  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The Special Oversight Board shall report to the President through the Secretary of  .

(b) The Special Oversight Board shall provide advice and recommendations based on its review of   investigations into possible detections of, and exposures to, chemical or biological weapons agents and environmental and other factors that may have contributed to Gulf War illnesses.

(c) It shall not be a function of   to conduct scientific research.

(d) It shall not be a function of   to provide advice or recommendations on any legal liability of   for any claims or potential claims against  .

(e) The Special Oversight Board shall submit an interim report within   of its first meeting and a final report within   of its first meeting, unless otherwise directed by the President.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide   with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Special Oversight Board members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ). The administrative staff for the Special Oversight Board shall be compensated in accordance with Federal law.

(c) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the Special Oversight Board with such funds as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, that are applicable to  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The Special Oversight Board shall terminate   after submitting its final report.

(c) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and it is not intended, and shall not be construed, to create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.
