Part I—Implementation of the AGOA

Section 1.   from   or Yarn Not Available in Commercial Quantities.   (the "Committee") is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 112(b)(5)(B)(i) of the   (19 U.S.C. 3721(b)(5)(B)(i)) to determine whether yarns or fabrics cannot be supplied by the domestic industry in commercial quantities in a timely manner. The   shall establish procedures to ensure appropriate public participation in any such determination. The   and   ( ) are jointly authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under sections 112(b)(5)(B)(ii), (iii), and (v) of the   (19 U.S.C. 3721(b)(5)(B)(ii), (iii), and (v)) to obtain advice from the appropriate advisory committee, to submit a report to the appropriate   committees, and to consult with those   committees. The   is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 112(b)(5)(B)(ii) of the   to obtain advice from   ( ).

 . 2. Handloomed,  , and  . The  , after consultation with the Commissioner,   (Commissioner), is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 112(b)(6) of the   (19 U.S.C. 3721(b)(6)) to consult with beneficiary sub-  countries and to determine which, if any, particular textile and apparel goods shall be treated as being handloomed, handmade, or folklore articles. The Commissioner shall take such actions to carry out any such determination as directed by the  .

 . 3. Certain Interlinings. The   is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 112(d)(1)(B)(iii) of the   (19 U.S.C. 3721(d)(1)(B)(iii)) to determine whether   manufacturers are producing interlinings in   in commercial quantities. The   shall establish procedures to ensure appropriate public participation in any such determination. The determination or determinations of the   under this section shall be set forth in a notice or notices that the   shall cause to be published in  . The Commissioner shall take such actions to carry out any such determination as directed by the  .

 . 4. Penalties for Transshipments. The  , after consultation with the Commissioner, is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 113(b)(3) of the   (19 U.S.C. 3722(b)(3)) to

determine, based on sufficient evidence, whether an exporter has engaged in transshipment and to deny for a period of   all benefits under section 112 of the   (19 U.S.C.  ) to any such exporter, any successor of such exporter, and any other entity owned or operated by the principal of such exporter. The determination or determinations of the   under this section shall be set forth in a notice or notices that the   shall cause to be published in  . The Commissioner shall take such actions to carry out any such determination as directed by the  .

 . 5. Effective  . Pursuant to sections 112(a) and 113(a)(1) of the   (19 U.S.C. 3721(a) and 3722(a)(1)), the   is authorized to direct the Commissioner to take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that textile and apparel articles described in section 112(b) of the   (19 U.S.C. 3721(b)) that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption are accompanied by an appropriate export visa, if the preferential treatment described in section 112(a) of the   is claimed with respect to such articles.

Part II—Implementation of the CBTPA

Sec. 6.   from   or Yarn Not Available in Commercial Quantities. The   is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 213(b)(2)(A)(v)(II)(aa) of the   (19 U.S.C. 2703(b)(2)(A)(v)(II)(aa)), as added by section 211(a) of the  , to determine whether yarns or fabrics cannot be supplied by the domestic industry in commercial quantities in a timely manner. The   shall establish procedures to ensure appropriate public participation in any such determination. The   and the   are jointly authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under sections 213(b)(2)(A)(v)(II)(bb), (cc), and (ee) of the   (19 U.S.C. 2703(b)(2)(A)(v)(II)(bb), (cc), and (ee)), as added by section 211(a) of the  , to obtain advice from the appropriate advisory committee, to submit a report to the appropriate   committees, and to consult with those   committees. The   is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 213(b)(2)(A)(v)(II)(bb) of the CBERA to obtain advice from the  .

 . 7. Certain Interlinings. The   is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 213(b)(2)(A)(vii)(II)(cc) of the   (19 U.S.C. 2703(b)(2)(A)(vii)(II)(cc)), as added by section 211(a) of the  , to determine whether   manufacturers are producing interlinings in   in commercial quantities. The   shall establish procedures to ensure appropriate public participation in any such determination. The determination or determinations of the   under this section shall be set forth in a notice or notices that the   shall cause to be published in  . The Commissioner shall take such actions to carry out any such determination as directed by the  .

 . 8. Handloomed,  , and  . The  , after consultation with the Commissioner, is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 213(b)(2)(C) of the   (19 U.S.C. 2703(b)(2)(C)), as added by section 211(a) of the  , to consult with representatives of CBTPA beneficiary countries for the purpose of identifying particular textile and apparel goods that are mutually agreed upon as being handloomed, hand made, or folklore goods within the meaning of that section. The Commissioner shall take such actions to carry out any such determination as directed by the  .

 . 9. Penalties for Transshipments. The  , after consultation with the Commissioner, is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 213(b)(2)(D) of the   (19 U.S.C. 2703(b)(2)(D)), as added by section 211(a) of the  , to determine, based on sufficient evidence, whether an exporter has engaged in transshipment and, if transshipment has occurred, to deny all benefits under the CBTPA to any such

exporter, and any successor of such exporter, for a period of  ; to request that any CBTPA beneficiary country through whose territory transshipment has occurred take all necessary and appropriate actions to prevent such transshipment; and to impose the penalty provided in section 213(b)(2)(D)(ii) of the CBERA on a CBTPA beneficiary country if the   determines that such country is not taking such actions. The determination or determinations of the   under this section shall be set forth in a notice or notices that the   shall cause to be published in  . The Commissioner shall take such actions to carry out any such determination as directed by the  .

 . 10. Bilateral Emergency Tariff Actions. The   is authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President under section 213(b)(2)(E) of the   (19 U.S.C. 2703(b)(2)(E)), as added by section 211(a) of the  , to take bilateral emergency tariff actions, if the   determines that the conditions provided in section 213(b)(2)(E) of the   are satisfied. The   shall establish procedures to ensure appropriate public participation in any such determination. The determination or determinations of the   under this section shall be set forth in a notice or notices that the   shall cause to be published in  . The Commissioner shall take such actions to carry out any such bilateral emergency tariff action as directed by the  .

Part III—General Provisions

Sec. 11.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.
