 . 1. Preamble. On  , I issued Executive Order   establishing the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve ( ) pursuant to my authority under  , as amended by   2000 (Act). In establishing the  , I set forth a number of conservation measures and created specific   to protect the coral reef ecosystem and related marine resources and species (resources) of the  . The Act provides that no closure areas can become permanent without adequate notice and comment. Accordingly, I proposed to make permanent   and initiated a   comment period on this proposal. I also sought comment on the conservation measures for the  . On my behalf, the Secretary of   received the public comments and held seven public hearings,including six throughout  . After considering the comments expressed at the hearings and received in writing, I have determined to make permanent   with certain modifications set forth below. Further, I have modified certain conservation measures to address concerns raised, particularly regarding commercial and recreational fishing within the  . With this action, the establishment of the   under the Act, including the conservation measures and permanent  , is complete. The Secretary of   will manage the   pursuant to Executive Order  , as modified by this order, under the Act. The Secretary shall also initiate the process to designate the   as a  , as required by the Act.

 . 2. Purpose. The purpose of this order is to amend Executive Order  , and to make permanent  , as modified below, to ensure the comprehensive, strong, and lasting protection of the resources of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands.

 . 3. Amendments to Sections 7 of Executive Order  .

1. Section 7(a)(1) of Executive Order   is hereby amended by revising the first sentence to read as follows:

"Commercial Fishing. All currently existing commercial Federal fishing permits and current levels of fishing effort and take, which also includes the non-permitted level of trolling for pelagic species by currently permitted bottom fishers, as determined by the Secretary and pursuant to regulations in effect on  , shall be capped as follows:"

2. Section 7(a)(1)(C) of Executive Order   is hereby revised to read as follows:

"(C) The   level of aggregate take under all permits of any particular type of fishing may not exceed the aggregate level of take under all permits of that type of fishing as follows:

(1)

Bottomfishing—the   aggregate level for each permitted bottomfisher shall be that permittee’s individual average taken over   preceding  , as determined by the Secretary, provided that the Secretary, in furtherance of the principles of the reserve, may make a onetime reasonable increase to the total aggregate to allow for the use of two   bottomfishing permits;

(2)

All other commercial fishing—the   aggregate level shall be the permittee’s individual take in   preceding December 4, 2000, as determined by the Secretary."

A new section 7(a)(1)(F) is hereby added to Executive Order   and reads as follows:

"(F) Trolling for pelagic species shall be capped based on reported landings for   preceding December 4, 2000."

Section 7(b)(4) is revised to read as follows:

"(4) Discharging or depositing any material or other matter into the  , or discharging or depositing any material or other matter outside the   that subsequently enters the   and injures any resource of the  , except:

(A)

fish parts (i.e., chumming materia or bait) used in and during fishing operations authorized under this order;

(B)

biodegradable effluent incident to vessel use and generated by a marine sanitation device in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended;

(C)

water generated by routine vessel operations (e.g., deck wash down and graywater as defined in section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act), excluding oily wastes from bilge pumping; or

(D) cooling water from vessels or engine exhaust; and".

 . 4. Amendments to Sections 8 of Executive Order  .

Section 8 of Executive Order   is modified by substituting "provided that commercial bottomfishing and commercial and recreational trolling for pelagic species in accordance with the requirements of sections 7(a)(1) and 7(a)(2) of this order, respectively," for "provided that bottomfishing in accordance with the requirements of section 7(a)(1)" everywhere the latter phrase appears in section 8.

Section 8(a)(1)(A) is modified by substituting "a mean depth of 25 fm" for "a mean depth of  ."

Section 8(a)(1)(B) is modified by substituting "a mean depth of 25 fm" for "a mean depth of 20fm."

Section 8(a)(1)(D) is modified by substituting "a mean depth of 25 fm" for "a mean depth of  ."

Section 8(a)(1)(E) is modified by substituting "a mean depth of 25 fm" for "a mean depth of 20fm."

Section 8(a)(1)(G) is modified by substituting "a mean depth of 25 fm" for "a mean depth of 50fm."

Section 8(a)(1)(I) is revised to read " ."

Sections 8(a)(2)(D) and (E) are hereby deleted and a new section 8(a)(3) is hereby substituted as follows:

"(3) Twelve nautical miles around the approximate geographical centers of

(A)

The first bank west of  , east of  , provided that commercial bottomfishing and commercial and recreational trolling for pelagic species in accordance with the requirements of sections 7(a)(1) and 7(a)(2) of this order, shall be allowed to continue for   from the date of this order; and

(B)

Raita Bank, provided that commercial bottomfishing and commercial and recreational trolling for pelagic species in accordance with the requirements of sections 7(a)(1) and 7(a)(2) of this order, shall be allowed to continue for   from the date of this order; and

(C)

Provided that both banks described above in (3)(A) and (3)(B) shall only continue to allow commercial bottomfishing and commercial and recreational trolling for pelagic species after the   time period if it is determined that continuation of such activities will have no adverse impact on the resources of these banks."

 . 5. Reserve Preservation Areas.  , as modified in sections 3 and 4 of this order, are hereby made permanent in accordance with the Act.

 . 6.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable in law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.
