Section 1.   shall be   (the " ") for purposes of the Act and  . 2. The   shall coordinate the implementation of the provisions of the Act and the Convention with an interagency group consisting of the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of such other agencies or departments, or their designees, I may consider necessary or advisable.

 . 3.    , and other agencies as appropriate, each shall issue, amend, or revise regulations, orders, or directives as necessary to implement the Act and   obligations under Article VI and related provisions of the Convention. Regulations under section 401(a) of the Act shall be issued by   by a date specified by the  , which shall review and approve these regulations, in coordination with the interagency group designated in section 2 of this order, prior to their issuance.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized:

(a) to obtain and execute warrants pursuant to section 305 of the Act for the purposes of conducting inspections of facilities subject to the regulations issued by   pursuant to section 3 of this order;

(b) to suspend or revoke export privileges pursuant to section 211 of the Act; and

(c) to carry out all functions with respect to proceedings under section 501(a) of the Act and to issue regulations with respect thereto, except for those functions that the Act specifies are to be performed by the Secretary of   or the  .

 . 5.   Defense, Commerce, and  , and other agencies as appropriate, are authorized to carry out, consistent with the Act and in accordance with subsequent directives, appropriate functions that are not otherwise assigned in the Act and are necessary to implement the provisions of the Convention and the Act.

 . 6.   Defense, Commerce, and  , and other agencies, as appropriate, are authorized to provide assistance to facilities not owned or operated by  , or contracted for use by or for  , in meeting reporting requirements and in preparing the facilities for possible inspection pursuant to the Convention.

 . 7. The  , in coordination with the interagency group designated in section 2 of this order, is authorized to determine whether disclosure of confidential business information pursuant to section 404(c) of the Act is in the national interest. Disclosure will not be permitted if contrary to national security or law enforcement needs.

 . 8. In order to take additional steps with respect to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and means of delivering them and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order   of  , as amended by Executive Order  , section 3 of Executive Order  , as amended, is amended to add a new subsection (e) to read as follows:

"(e) the Secretary of   shall impose and enforce such restrictions on the importation of chemicals into   as may be necessary to carry out the requirements of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of   and on Their Destruction."

 . 9. Any investigation emanating from a possible violation of this order, or of any license, order, or regulation issued pursuant to this order, involving or revealing a possible violation of 18 U.S.C. section 229 shall be referred to  ), which shall coordinate with the referring agency and other appropriate agencies. The   shall timely notify the referring agency and other appropriate agencies of any action it takes on such referrals.

 . 10. Nothing in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 11. (a) This order shall take effect at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time,  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
