Section 1.   and   and Use Sanctions. (a)   and  . The authority and duties vested in me by section 81 of  , as amended ("AECA") (22 U.S.C.  ), and section 11C of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended ("EAA") (50 U.S.C. App.  ), are delegated to the Secretary of  , except that:

(1) The authority and duties vested in me to deny certain   contracts, as provided in section 81(c)(1)(A) of the AECA and section 11C(c)(1)(A) of the  , pursuant to a determination made by the Secretary of   under section 81(a)(1) of the AECA or section 11C(a)(1) of the  , as well as the authority and duties vested in me to make the determinations provided for in section 81(c)(2) of the AECA and section 11C(c)(2) of the   are delegated to the Secretary of  . The Secretary of   shall notify the Secretary of the   of determinations made pursuant to section 81(c)(2) of the AECA and section 11(c)(2) of the  .

(2) The authority and duties vested in me to prohibit certain imports as provided in section 81(c)(1)(B) of the AECA and section 11C(c)(1)(B) of the  , pursuant to a determination made by the Secretary of   under section 81(a)(1) of the AECA or section 11C(a)(1) of the  , and the obligation to implement the exceptions provided in section 81(c)(2) of the AECA and section 11C(c)(2) of the  , insofar as the exceptions affect imports of goods into  , are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(b)   and  . The authority and duties vested in me by sections 306-308 of the   and   and Warfare Elimination Act of   (22 U.S.C.  ) are delegated to the Secretary of  , except that:

(1) The authority and duties vested in me to restrict certain imports as provided in section 307(b)(2)(D), pursuant to a determination made by the Secretary of   under section 307(b)(1), are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(2) The Secretary of   shall issue, transmit to the  , and notify the Secretary of the   of, as appropriate, waivers based upon findings made pursuant to section 307(d)(1)(A)(ii).

(3) The authority and duties vested in me to prohibit certain exports as provided in section 307(a)(5) and section 307(b)(2)(C), pursuant to a determination made by the Secretary of   under section 306(a)(1) and section 307(b)(1), are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(c) Coordination Among Agencies. The Secretaries designated in this section shall exercise all functions delegated to them by this section in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and other departments and agencies as appropriate, utilizing the appropriate interagency groups prior to any determination to exercise the prohibition authority delegated hereby.

 . 2.  . (a) Arms Export Control Act. The authority and duties vested in me by sections 72-73 of the AECA (22 U.S.C. 2797a-2797b) are delegated to the Secretary of  , except that:

(1) The authority and duties vested in me by section 72(a)(1) to make determinations with respect to violations by   persons of the   are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(2) The authority and duties vested in me to deny certain   contracts as provided in sections 73(a)(2)(A)(i) and 73(a)(2)(B)(i), pursuant to a determination made by the Secretary of   under section 73(a)(1), as well as the authority and duties vested in me to make the findings provided in sections 72(c), 73(f), and  ), are delegated to the Secretary of  . The Secretary of   shall issue, transmit to the   and notify the Secretary of the   of, as appropriate, any waivers based upon findings made pursuant to section 72(c) and 73(f).

(3) The authority and duties vested in me to prohibit certain imports as provided in section 73(a)(2)(C), pursuant to a determination made by the Secretary of   under that section, and the obligation to implement the exceptions provided in section 73(g), are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(b) Export Administration Act. The authority and duties vested in me by section 11B of the   (50 U.S.C. App. 2410b) are delegated to the Secretary of  , except that:

(1) The authority and duties vested in me by sections 11B(a)(1)(A) (insofar as such section authorizes determinations with respect to violations by   persons of the AECA), 11B(b)(1) (insofar as such section authorizes determinations regarding activities by foreign persons), and 11B(b)(5) are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(2) The authority and duties vested in me to make the findings provided in sections 11B(a)(3), 11B(b)(6), and 11B(b)(7)(A) are delegated to the Secretary of  . The Secretary of   shall issue, transmit to the  , and notify the Secretary of the   of, as appropriate, waivers based upon findings made pursuant to sections 11B(a)(3). The Secretary of   shall issue, transmit to the  , and notify the Secretary of the   of, as appropriate, waivers based upon findings made pursuant to 11B(b)(6).

(3) The authority and duties vested in me to prohibit certain imports as provided in section 11B(b)(l), pursuant to a determination by the Secretary of   under that section, and the obligation to implement the exceptions provided in section 11B(b)(7), are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(c) Reporting Requirements. The authority and duties vested in me to make certain reports to the   as provided in section   of   for     and section 1364 of   for   are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(d) Coordination Among Agencies. The Secretaries designated in this section shall exercise all functions delegated to them by this section in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and other departments and agencies as appropriate, utilizing the appropriate interagency groups prior to any determination to exercise prohibition authority delegated hereby.

 . 3. Arms Control in the Middle East. The certification and reporting functions vested in me by sections 403 and 404 of  ,    , are delegated to the Secretary of  . The Secretary of   shall exercise these functions in consultation with the Secretary of   and other agencies as appropriate.

 . 4.   and Weapons Proliferation. The reporting functions regarding   and weapons proliferation vested in me by sections 303(a)(2) and 324 of  ,    , are delegated to the Secretary of  . The Secretary of   shall exercise these functions in consultation with the Secretary of   and other agencies as appropriate.

 . 5.  . The authority and duties vested in me to make certain certifications as provided by section 241(b)(3)(C) of   for     are delegated to the Secretary of  .

 . 6. Delegations. The functions delegated herein may be redelegated as appropriate. Regulations necessary to carry out the functions delegated herein may be issued as appropriate.

 . 7. Priority. This order supercedes the Memorandum of the President, " ,"  . To the extend that this order is inconsistent with any provisions of any prior Executive order or Presidential memorandum, this order shall control.
