Section 1. It is the policy of the executive branch in procuring goods and services that, to ensure the economical and efficient administration and completion of   contracts, contracting agencies shall not contract with employers that permanently replace lawfully striking employees. All discretion under this   order shall be exercised consistent with this policy.

 . 2. (a) The Secretary of   ("Secretary") may investigate an organizational unit of a   contractor to determine whether the unit has permanently replaced lawfully striking workers. Such investigation shall be conducted in accordance with procedures established by the Secretary. (b) The Secretary shall receive and may investigate complaints by employees of any entity covered under section 2(a) of this order where such complaints allege lawfully striking employees have been permanently replaced. (c) The Secretary may hold such hearings, public or private, as he or she deems advisable, to determine whether an entity covered under section 2(a) has permanently replaced lawfully striking employees.

 . 3. (a) When the Secretary determines that a contractor has permanently replaced lawfully striking employees, the Secretary may make a finding that it is appropriate to terminate the contract for convenience. The Secretary shall transmit that finding to the head of any department or agency that contracts with the contractor. (b) The head of the contracting department or agency may object to the termination for convenience of a contract or contracts of a contractor determined to have permanently replaced legally striking employees. If the head of the agency so objects, he or she shall set forth the reasons for not terminating the contract or contracts in a response in writing to the Secretary. In such case, the termination for convenience shall not be issued. The head of the contracting agency or department shall report to the Secretary those contracts that have been terminated for convenience under this section.

 . 4. (a) When the Secretary determines that a contractor has permanently replaced lawfully striking employees, the Secretary may debar the contractor, thereby making the contractor ineligible to receive government contracts. The Secretary shall notify the Administrator of   of the debarment, and the Administrator shall include the contractor on the consolidated list of debarred contractors. Departments and agencies shall not solicit offers from, award contracts to, or consent to subcontracts with these contractors unless the head of the agency or his or her designee determines, in writing, that there is a compelling reason for such action, in accordance with  . (b) The scope of the debarment normally will be limited to those organizational units of a   contractor that the Secretary finds to have permanently replaced lawfully striking workers. (c) The period of the debarment may not extend beyond the date when the labor dispute precipitating the permanent replacement of lawfully striking workers has been resolved, as determined by the Secretary.

 . 5. The Secretary shall publish or cause to be published, in  , the names of contractors that have, in the judgment of the Secretary, permanently replaced lawfully striking employees and have been the subject of debarment.

 . 6. The Secretary shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this order. The Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , the Administrator of  , and  , may adopt such rules and regulations and issue such orders as may be deemed necessary and appropriate to achieve the purposes of this order.

 . 7. Each contracting department and agency shall cooperate with the Secretary and provide such information and assistance as the Secretary may require in the performance of the Secretary's functions under this order.

 . 8. The Secretary may delegate any function or duty of the Secretary under this order to any officer in   or to any other officer in the executive branch of the Government, with the consent of the head of the department or agency in which that officer serves.

 . 9. The Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , and the Administrator of  , after consultation with  , shall take whatever action is appropriate to implement the provisions of this order and of any related rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary issued pursuant to this order.

 . 10. This order is not intended, and should not be construed, to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or its employees. This order is not intended, however, to preclude judicial review of final agency decisions in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701 et seq.

 . 11. The meaning of the term "organizational unit of a   contractor" as used in this order shall be defined in regulations that shall be issued by the Secretary of  , in consultation with affected agencies. This order shall apply only to contracts in excess of  .

 . 12. (a) The provisions of section 3 of this order shall only apply to situations in which contractors have permanently replaced lawfully striking employees after the effective date of this order. (b) This order is effective immediately.

 
