Section 1. Establishment. There is established    " ("Committee"). The   shall consist of not more than 15 members appointed by the President. Members shall be chosen from the private sector, including members of the commercial and noncommercial broadcasting industry, computer industries, producers, academic institutions, public interest organizations, and the advertising community. The President shall designate a   from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. On or before  , the   shall report to the Vice President on the public interest obligations digital television broadcasters should assume. For the purpose of carrying out its functions the   may, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of  , hold meetings at such times and places as the   may find advisable.

 . 3. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall provide the  , upon request, with such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b) Upon request of  , the head of any executive department, agency, or instrumentality shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the discretion of such head, (1) make any of the facilities and services of such department, agency, or instrumentality available to the  ; and (2) detail any of the personnel of such department, agency, or instrumentality to the   to assist the   in carrying out its duties.

(c) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . While engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from the private sector may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law and as the  , in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of   and In formation, may allow as needed, for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ), to the extent funds are available for such purposes.

(d) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with administrative services, staff, and other support services necessary for performance of the  's functions.

(e) The Assistant Secretary of  , or his designee, shall perform the functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 4. General. The   shall terminate   after submitting its report, unless extended by the President.
