Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued in conformity with section 570 of the Act and pursuant to this order, I hereby prohibit new investments in   by   persons.

 . 2. The following are also prohibited, except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order:

(a) any approval or other facilitation by a   person, wherever located, of a transaction by a foreign person where the transaction would constitute new investment in   prohibited by this order if engaged in by a   person or within  ; and

(b) any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 3. Nothing in this order shall be construed to prohibit the entry into, performance of, or financing of a contract to sell or purchase goods, services, or technology, except:

(a) where the entry into such contract on or after the effective date of this order is for the general supervision and guarantee of another person's performance of a contract for the economic development of resources located in  ; or

(b) where such contract provides for payment, in whole or in part, in:

(i) shares of ownership, including an equity interest, in the economic development of resources located in  ; or

(ii) participation in royalties, earnings, or profits in the economic development of resources located in  .

 . 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d) the term "new investment" means any of the following activities, if such an activity is undertaken pursuant to an agreement, or pursuant to the exercise of rights under such an agreement, that is entered into with   or a nongovernmental entity in   on or after the effective date of this order:

(i) the entry into a contract that includes the economic development of resources located in  ;

(ii) the entry into a contract providing for the general supervision and guarantee of another person's performance of a contract that includes the economic development of resources located in  ;

(iii) the purchase of a share of ownership, including an equity interest, in the economic development of resources located in  ; or

(iv) the entry into a contract providing for the participation in royalties, earnings, or profits in the economic development of resources located in  , without regard to the form of the participation;

(e) the term "resources located in  " means any resources, including natural, agricultural, commercial, financial, industrial, and human resources, located within the territory of  , including the territorial sea, or located within the exclusive economic zone or continental shelf of  ;

(f) the term "economic development of resources located in  " shall not be construed to include not-for-profit educational, health, or other humanitarian programs or activities.

 . 5. I hereby delegate to the Secretary of   the functions vested in me under section 570(c) and (d) of the Act, to be exercised in consultation with the heads of other agencies of   as appropriate.

 . 6. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by section 570(b) of the Act and by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate the authority set forth in this order to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 7. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 8. (a) This order shall take effect at 12:01 a.m., eastern daylight time,  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
