Section 1. The following are prohibited, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order: (a) the importation into  , or the financing of such importation, of any goods or services of   origin, other than  -origin publications and materials imported for news publications or news broadcast dissemination;

(b) except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), the exportation from   to  ,  , or to any entity owned or controlled by  , or the financing of such exportation, of any goods, technology (including technical data or other information subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR Parts 768-799 ( ) (the "EAR")), or services;

(c) the reexportation to  ,  , or to any entity owned or controlled by  , of any goods or technology (including technical data or other information) exported from  , the exportation of which to   is subject to export license application requirements under any   regulations in effect immediately prior to the issuance of this order, unless, for goods, they have been (i) substantially transformed outside  , or (ii) incorporated into another product outside   and constitute less than 10 percent by value of that product exported from a third country;

(d) except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), any transaction, including purchase, sale, transportation, swap, financing, or brokering transactions, by a   person relating to goods or services of   origin or owned or controlled by  ;

(e) any new investment by a   person in   or in property (including entities) owned or controlled by  ;

(f) the approval or facilitation by a   person of the entry into or performance by an entity owned or controlled by a   person of a transaction or contract (i) prohibited as to   persons by subsection (c), (d), or (e) above, or (ii) relating to the financing of activities prohibited as to   persons by those subsections, or of a guaranty of another person's performance of such transaction or contract; and

(g) any transaction by any   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 2. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d) the term " " means the territory of   and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and   shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements; and

(e) the term "new investment" means (i) a commitment or contribution of funds or other assets, or (ii) a loan or other extension of credit.

 . 3. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, the requirement of reports, including reports by   persons on oil transactions engaged in by their foreign affiliates with   or  , and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 4. The Secretary of the   may not authorize the exportation or reexportation to  ,  , or an entity owned or controlled by   of any goods, technology, or services subject to export license application requirements of another agency of  , if authorization of the exportation or reexportation by that agency would be prohibited by law.

 . 5. Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order No. 12613 of  , and sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order No. 12957 of March 15,  , are hereby revoked to the extent inconsistent with this order. Otherwise, the provisions of this order supplement the provisions of Executive Orders No. 12613 and  .

 . 6. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7. The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the   Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.

 . 8. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 a.m., eastern daylight time, on  , except that (i) section 1(b), (c), and (d) of this order shall not apply until 12:01 a.m., eastern daylight time, on  , to trade transactions under contracts in force as of the date of this order if such transactions are authorized pursuant to Federal regulations in force immediately prior to the date of this order ("existing trade contracts"), and (ii) letters of credit and other financing agreements with respect to existing trade contracts may be performed pursuant to their terms with respect to underlying trade transactions occurring prior to 12:01 a.m., eastern daylight time, on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
