Section 1. The Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and   and a   ("Agreement") shall be implemented consistent with   policy for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health, and the environment. The Agreement shall also be implemented to advance sustainable development, pollution prevention, environmental justice, ecosystem protection, and biodiversity preservation and in a manner that promotes transparency and public participation in accordance with   and the Agreement.

 . 2. (a) The Administrator of   and   Commissioner,  ,   and   ("Commissioner"), shall represent   as Members of   of   in accordance with the Agreement.

(b) The policies and positions of   in   shall be coordinated through applicable interagency procedures, which shall include participation by  ,  ,  ,  , the Agency for International Development,  , and, as appropriate, other Federal agencies.

(c) The Commissioner shall promote cooperation, as appropriate, between   and   in planning, developing, carrying out border sanitation, and other environmental activities.

 . 3. (a)   representatives to   shall be the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  .

 . 8. Any advice or conclusions of reviews provided to the President by   pursuant to section 543(b)(3) of the NAFTA Implementation Act shall be provided through  .

 . 9. Any summaries of public comments or conclusions of investigations and audits provided to the President by the ombudsman pursuant to section 543(c)(1) of the NAFTA Implementation Act shall be provided through  .

 . 10. The authority of the President under section 6 of Public Law 102–532; 7 U.S.C.  , to establish an advisory board to be known as   is delegated to  .

 . 11. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right to administrative or judicial review, or any other right or benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
