Section 1. Definitions. For purposes of this order:

(a) "State" or "States" refer to the States of  , individually or collectively, and, where relevant, to   governments, including units of local government and other political subdivisions established by the  .

(b) "  tribe" means an   or   tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the   acknowledges to exist as an   tribe pursuant to   of  , 25 U.S.C. 479a.

(c) "Agency" means any authority of   that is an "agency" under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

 . 2. Policymaking Criteria. In formulating policies significantly or uniquely affecting   tribal governments, agencies shall be guided, to the extent permitted by law, by principles of respect for   tribal self-government and sovereignty, for tribal treaty and other rights, and for responsibilities that arise from the unique legal relationship between   and   tribal governments.

 . 3. Consultation. (a) Each agency shall have an effective process to permit elected officials and other representatives of   tribal governments to provide meaningful and timely input in the development of regulatory policies on matters that significantly or uniquely affect their communities.

(b) To the extent practicable and permitted by law, no agency shall promulgate any regulation that is not required by statute, that significantly or uniquely affects the communities of the   tribal governments, and that imposes substantial direct compliance costs on such communities, unless:

(1) funds necessary to pay the direct costs incurred by the   tribal government in complying with the regulation are provided by  ; or

(2) the agency, prior to the formal promulgation of the regulation,

(A) in a separately identified portion of the preamble to the regulation as it is to be issued in  , provides to the Director of   a description of the extent of the agency's prior consultation with representatives of affected   tribal governments, a summary of the nature of their concerns, and the agency's position supporting the need to issue the regulation; and

(B) makes available to the Director of   any written communications submitted to the agency by such   tribal governments.

 . 4. Increasing Flexibility for    . (a) Agencies shall review the processes under which   tribal governments apply for waivers of statutory and regulatory requirements and take appropriate steps to streamline those processes.

(b) Each agency shall, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, consider any application by an   tribal government for a waiver of statutory or regulatory requirements in connection with any program administered by that agency with a general view toward increasing opportunities for utilizing flexible policy approaches at the   tribal level in cases in which the proposed waiver is consistent with the applicable Federal policy objectives and is otherwise appropriate.

(c) Each agency shall, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, render a decision upon a complete application for a waiver within   of receipt of such application by the agency. The agency shall provide the applicant with timely written notice of the decision and, if the application for a waiver is not granted, the reasons for such denial.

(d) This section applies only to statutory or regulatory requirements that are discretionary and subject to waiver by the agency.

 . 5. Cooperation in developing regulations. On issues relating to tribal self-government, trust resources, or treaty and other rights, each agency should explore and, where appropriate, use consensual mechanisms for developing regulations, including negotiated rulemaking.

 . 6. Independent agencies. Independent regulatory agencies are encouraged to comply with the provisions of this order.

 . 7. General provisions. (a) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

(b) This order shall supplement but not supersede the requirements contained in Executive Order    "), Executive Order   ("Civil Justice Reform"), OMB  , and   of  , on Government-to-Government Relations with   Tribal Governments.

(c) This order shall complement the consultation and waiver provisions in sections 4 and 5 of the   order, entitled "Federalism," being issued on  .

(d) This order shall be effective   after the date of this order.
