Section 1. Establishment. There is established   ("PCAST"). PCAST shall be composed of not more than 16 members, one of whom shall be the Assistant to the President for   ("Assistant"), and 15 of whom shall be distinguished individuals from the nonfederal sector appointed by the President. The nonfederal sector members shall be representative of the diverse perspectives and expertise in this  's investments in science and technology. The Assistant to the President for   shall co-chair PCAST with a nonfederal sector member selected by the President.

 . 2. Functions. (a) The PCAST shall advise the President, through the Assistant, on matters involving science and technology.

(b) In the performance of its advisory duties, PCAST shall assist   ("Council") in securing private sector involvement in its activities.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide PCAST such information with respect to scientific and technological matters as required for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b) In consultation with the Assistant to the President for  , PCAST is authorized to convene ad hoc working groups to assist the  .

(c) Members of PCAST shall serve without any compensation for their work on PCAST. However, members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(d) Any expenses of PCAST shall be paid from the funds available for the expenses of  .

(e)   shall provide such administrative services as may be required.

 . 4. General. (a) I have determined that the   shall be established in compliance with  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.). Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to PCAST shall be performed by   in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) PCAST shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended prior to that date.

(c) Executive  .  ,  , and Section 2 of Executive Order No.   are hereby revoked.
