Section 1.(a) There is established  " (Task Force).

(b)

The Task Force shall include the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Director of  , the Director of  ,  , the Administrator of  , the Administrator of  , or their designees, and such other senior executive branch officials as may be determined by  . The Chair of the Task Force shall rotate   among  , and   in an order deter mined by those agency heads. Administrative support shall be provided by the then-current chair.

(c)

The purpose of   is to coordinate and improve existing Federal efforts for the Valley, in concert with locally led efforts, in order to increase the living standards and the overall economic performance of the Valley. Economic development efforts shall include consideration of the preservation or enhancement of the natural environment and natural resources of the Valley. Specifically, the Task Force shall:

(1)

analyze programs and policies of Task Force member agencies that relate to the Valley to determine what changes, modifications, and innovations should be considered, if any;

(2)

consider statistical and data analysis, research, and policy studies related to the Valley;

(3)

develop, recommend, and implement short-term and long-term options for promoting sustainable economic development;

(4)

consult and coordinate activities with  , tribal, and local governments, community leaders, Members of  , the private sector, and other interested parties, paying particular attention to maintaining existing authorities of the  , tribes, and local governments, and preserving their existing working relationships with other agencies, organizations, or individuals;

(5)

coordinate and collaborate on research and demonstration priorities of Task Force member agencies related to the Valley;

(6)

integrate Federal initiatives and programs into the design of sustainable economic development actions for the Valley; and

(7)

focus initial efforts on pilot communities for implementing a coordinated and expedited Federal response to local economic development and other needs.

(d)

The Task Force shall issue an interim report to the President by  . The Task Force shall issue its first annual report to the President by  , with subsequent reports to follow   for  . The reports shall describe the actions taken by, and progress of, each member of   in carrying out this order.

 . 2. Specific Activities by Task Force Members and Other Agencies.

The agencies represented on the Task Force shall work together and report their actions and progress in carrying out this order to     before the reports are due to the President under section 1(d) of this order.

 . 3. Cooperation. All efforts taken by agencies under sections 1 and 2 of this order shall, as appropriate, further partnerships and cooperation with organizations that represent the Valley and with  , tribal, and local governments.

 . 4. Definitions. (a) "Agency" means an executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.

(b) The Central San Joaquin Valley or "Valley" means the counties of  , Kern, Kings,  , Merced,  , and   in  .

 . 5.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.
