Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established in     on  " ("Council"). The   shall consist of not more than 25 members to be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce ("Secretary").

(b)

The Secretary shall appoint from among the members of the   officials to serve as chairperson(s) or vice-chairperson(s) of the   as he shall deem appropriate.

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall advise the Secretary on matters related to the development of  .   shall be the integration of hardware, software, and skills that will make it easy and affordable to connect people with each other, with computers, and with a vast array of services and information resources.

(b)

The   shall advise the Secretary on a national strategy for promoting the development of a National Information Infrastructure. Issues that the   may address include, but are not limited to:

(1)

the appropriate roles of the private and public sectors in developing  ;

(2)

a vision for the evolution of   and its public and commercial applications;

(3)

the impact of current and proposed regulatory regimes on the evolution of  ;

(4)

national strategies for maximizing the benefits of  , as measured by job creation, economic growth, increased productivity, and enhanced quality of life;

(5)

national strategies for developing and demonstrating applications in areas such as electronic commerce, agile manufacturing, life-long learning, health care, government services, and civic networking;

(6)

national security, emergency preparedness, system security, and network protection implications;

(7)

national strategies for maximizing interconnection and inter-operability of communications networks;

(8)

international issues associated with  ;

(9)

universal access; and

(10)

privacy, security, and copyright issues.

(c)

The chairperson(s) may, from time to time, invite experts to submit information to the   and may form subcommittees of the   to review specific issues.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the   such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b)

Members of the   shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law, including 5 U.S.C. 5701–5707 and section 7(d) of the Act, for persons serving intermittently in government service.

(c)

  shall provide the   with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Act that are applicable to the  , except that of reporting to  , shall be performed by the Secretary in accordance with guidelines that have been issued by  .

(b)

The   shall exist for     from the date of this order, unless the  ’s charter is subsequently extended prior to the aforementioned date.

(c)

Members of the   and its subcommittee shall not be considered special government employees for any purpose or for purposes of 18 U.S.C. 201–203, 205,  , and 218–219.
