Section 1. Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  

(a)

Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( );

(b)

 ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( );

(c)

President’s Commission on  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( );

(d)

President’s Committee on the   and Humanities; Executive Order No.  , as amended (National Endowment for the  );

(e)

President’s Committee on  ; Executive Order No.   ( );

(f)

President’s Committee on Mental Retardation; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( );

(g)

President’s Committee on  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( );

(h)

President’s Council on Physical Fitness and Sports; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( );

(i)

President’s  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ); and

(j) President’s  ;

Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

 . 2.  ;

Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ), the authority for which expired on  , is hereby reestab-

lished in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order No.  ,

as amended, and shall continue until  .

 . 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in sections 1 and 2 of this order, except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 4. The following Executive orders or sections thereof, which established committees that have terminated or whose work is completed, are revoked:

(a)

Executive Order No.  , establishing  ;

(b)

Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , establishing   on   (AID) Programs;

(c)

Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , establishing  ;

(d)

Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , establishing  ;

(e)

Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive  .   and  , establishing  ; and

(f) Section 5 of Executive Order No.  , establishing the Vice President’s

Space Policy Advisory Board.

 . 5. Executive  .   is superseded.

 . 6. This order shall be effective  .
