2.
On any legislative day during the period from July 30, 2015, through September 7, 2015—
(a)
the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered as approved; and
(b)
the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
3.
The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
4.
Each day during the period addressed by section 2 of this resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1546
).
5.
Each day during the period addressed by section 2 of this resolution shall not constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of rule XIII.
6.
It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of July 30, 2015, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult with the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
7.
The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the legislative day of July 30, 2015.
8.
For purposes of the joint meeting to receive Pope Francis on September 24, 2015, only the following persons shall be admitted to the Hall of the House or rooms leading thereto:
(a)
Members of Congress and Members-elect.
(b)
The Delegates and the Resident Commissioner.
(c)
The President and Vice President of the United States.
(d)
Justices of the Supreme Court.
(e)
Elected officers of the House.
(f)
The Parliamentarian.
(g)
The Architect of the Capitol.
(h)
The Librarian of Congress.
(i)
The Secretary and Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate.
(j)
Heads of departments.
(k)
Other persons as designated by the Speaker.
Karen L. Haas,
Clerk.
