Executive Order  —  on  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to restore the proper division of power under the Constitution between   and the States and to further the goals of, and to ensure strict compliance with, statutes that prohibit Federal interference with   and local control over education, including section 103 of   ) (20 U.S.C. 3403), sections 438 and 447 of the General Education Provisions Act (GEPA), as amended (   ), and sections  ,  , and 8529 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of   (ESEA), as amended by   (ESSA) ( , and  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It shall be the policy of the executive branch to protect and preserve   and local control over the curriculum, program of instruction, administration, and personnel of educational institutions, schools, and school systems, consistent with applicable law, including ESEA, as amended by  , and  's restrictions related to   developed under  .

 . 2

.

Review of Regulations and Guidance Documents

. (a) The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall review all  ) regulations and guidance documents relating to  ,  , and ESEA, as amended by  .

(b) The Secretary shall examine whether these regulations and guidance documents comply with Federal laws that prohibit the   from exercising any direction, supervision, or control over areas subject to   and local control, including:

(i) the curriculum or program of instruction of any elementary and secondary school and school system;

(ii) school administration and personnel; and

(iii) selection and content of library resources, textbooks, and instructional materials.

(c) The Secretary shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, rescind or revise any regulations that are identified pursuant to subsection (b) of this section as inconsistent with statutory prohibitions. The Secretary shall also rescind or revise any guidance documents that are identified pursuant to subsection (b) of this section as inconsistent with statutory prohibitions. The Secretary shall, to the extent consistent with law, publish any proposed regulations and withdraw or modify any guidance documents pursuant to this subsection   after the date of this order.

 . 3

.

Definition

. The term "guidance document" means any written statement issued by the   to the public that sets forth a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical issue or an interpretation of a statutory or regulatory issue, including   letters, interpretive memoranda, policy statements, manuals, circulars, memoranda, pamphlets, bulletins, advisories, technical assistance, and grants of applications for waivers.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
