Executive Order  —Establishing   in   Sector
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy.

The security, integrity, and availability of   telecommunications networks are vital to   national security and law enforcement interests.

 . 2. Definitions.

For purposes of this order:

(a) "License" means any license, certificate of public interest, or other authorization issued or granted by   ( ) after referral of an application by the   to the   established by subsection 3(a) of this order or, if referred before the date of this order, to the group of executive departments and agencies involved in the review process that was previously in place.

(b) "Application" means any application, petition, or other request for a license or authorization, or the transfer of a license or authorization, that is referred by the   to the   established in subsection 3(a) of this order or that was referred by the   before the date of this order to the group of executive departments and agencies involved in the review process that was previously in place.

(c) "Intelligence Community" shall have the meaning assigned to it in subsection 3.5(h) of Executive Order   of   ( ), as amended.

(d) "Mitigation measures" shall mean both standard and non-standard mitigation measures.

(e) "Standard mitigation measures" shall be those measures agreed upon by   (as defined in subsection 3(b) of this order) and   (as defined in subsection 3(d) of this order).

 . 3. Establishment.

(a) There is hereby established   in  ), the primary objective of which shall be to assist the   in its public interest review of national security and law enforcement concerns that may be raised by foreign participation in   telecommunications services sector. The function of the   shall be:

(i) to review applications and licenses for risks to national security and law enforcement interests posed by such applications or licenses; and

(ii) to respond to any risks presented by applications or licenses by recommending to the  , as appropriate and consistent with the provisions of this order, that it dismiss an application, deny an application, condition the grant of an application upon compliance with mitigation measures, modify a license with a condition of compliance with mitigation measures, or revoke a license.

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members (Committee Members):

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Attorney General;

(iii) the Secretary of  ; and

(iv) the head of any other executive department or agency, or any Assistant to the President, as the President determines appropriate.

(c) The Attorney General shall serve as  ).

(d) The following officials shall be advisors to  ) with no role in the duties set forth in sections 4 through 11 of this order except as provided in subsections 6(c), 9(f), 9(g), 10(g), and 11(d) of this order:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Director of  ;

(v)  ;

(vi) the Director of  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii) the Assistant to the President for  ;

(ix) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(x) the Director of  ;

(xi) the Chair of  ; and

(xii) any other Assistant to the President, as the President determines appropriate.

(e)   may, subject to the limitations in this order, designate a senior executive from their entity to perform the functions described in this order on their behalf.

 . 4. Duties of Committee Chair and Members.

(a) The   shall designate one or more   Members to serve as the lead for executing any function of  ). The   may assign to a Lead Member any or all of the following responsibilities as appropriate and consistent with their statutory authorities:

(i) submitting to applicants or licensees any questions or requests for information to establish facts about an application or license necessary to conduct the reviews and assessments described in sections 5 and 6 of this order;

(ii) identifying risks to national security or law enforcement interests of   raised by an application or license, in consultation, as appropriate, with other   Members;

(iii) coordinating with other   Members on the reviews and assessments described in sections 5 and 6 of this order;

(iv) proposing, in coordination with the  , any mitigation measures necessary to address any risk to national security or law enforcement interests of   identified through the risk-based analysis described in subsection 9(c) of this order;

(v) coordinating with other   Members and communicating with applicants or licensees regarding any mitigation measures necessary to address risks to national security and law enforcement interests of  ;

(vi) monitoring compliance with, and coordinating with the   regarding, any mitigation measure the   recommends be imposed by the   as a condition on a license; or

(vii) any related responsibilities as specified by the  .

(b) Except as otherwise provided in this order, the   shall have the exclusive authority to act, or to authorize other   Members to act, on behalf of the  , including communicating with the   and with applicants or licensees on behalf of the  .

(c) In acting on behalf of the  , the   or a Lead Member, as applicable, shall keep the   fully informed of the  's or Lead Member's respective activities taken under this order and shall consult with the   before taking any material actions under this order.

 . 5.  .

(a) The   shall review and assess applications to determine whether granting a license or the transfer of a license poses a risk to national security or law enforcement interests of  .

(b) Upon referral by the   of an application, the   shall conduct an initial review of the application to evaluate whether granting the requested license or transfer of license may pose a risk to national security or law enforcement interests of  .

(i) During the initial review, the   may determine:

(A) that granting an application for a license or the transfer of a license raises no current risk to national security or law enforcement interests;

(B) that any identified risk to national security or law enforcement interests raised by an application may be addressed through standard mitigation measures recommended by the  ; or

(C) that a secondary assessment of an application is warranted because risk to national security or law enforcement interests cannot be mitigated by standard mitigation measures.

(ii) If the   determines that granting the application does not raise a current risk to national security or law enforcement interests or that standard mitigation measures would mitigate any risk to national security or law enforcement interests, such a determination and any recommendations shall be communicated to the   in a manner consistent with sections 9 and 10 of this order.

(iii) Except as provided in subsection 5(d) of this order, any initial review shall be completed before     period beginning on the date the   determines that the applicant's responses to any questions and information requests from the   are complete.

(c) When the   has determined that a secondary assessment of an application is warranted, it shall conduct such an assessment to further evaluate the risk posed to national security and law enforcement interests of   and to determine whether to make any recommendations pursuant to section 9 of this order. Any secondary assessment of an application shall be completed   after the  's determination that a secondary assessment is warranted. The   shall notify the   of a determination that a secondary assessment is warranted.

(d) During an initial review under subsection 5(b) of this order or a secondary assessment under subsection 5(c) of this order, if an applicant fails to respond to any additional requests for information after the   determines the responses are complete, the   may either extend the initial review or secondary assessment period or make a recommendation to the   to dismiss the application without prejudice. The   shall notify the   of a determination that the applicant's responses are complete, of any extensions of the initial review period, or when the   recommends dismissal under this subsection.

 . 6.  .

(a) The   may review existing licenses to identify any additional or new risks to national security or law enforcement interests of  .

(b) The   shall determine whether to review an existing license by majority vote of the Committee Members.

(c) If the   conducts such a review, it shall promptly notify  .

 . 7.   by the Director of  .

(a) For each license or application reviewed by the  , the Director of   shall produce a written assessment of any threat to national security interests of   posed by granting the application or maintaining the license. The Director of   shall solicit and incorporate the views of  , as appropriate.

(b) The analysis required under subsection (a) of this section shall be provided to the   within   from the date on which the   determines that an applicant's or licensee's responses to any questions and requests for information from the   are complete or   from the date on which the   requests such an analysis. Such an analysis may be supplemented or amended as appropriate or upon a request for additional information by the  .

(c) The Director of   shall ensure that   continues to analyze and disseminate to the   any additional relevant information that may become available during the course of a review or assessment conducted with respect to an application or license.

 . 8. Requests for Information.

In furtherance of its reviews and assessments of applications and licenses as described in this section, the   may seek information from applicants, licensees, and any other entity as needed. Information submitted to the   pursuant to this subsection and analysis concerning such information shall not be disclosed beyond   Member entities and   entities, except as appropriate and consistent with procedures governing the handling of classified or otherwise privileged or protected information, under the following circumstances:

(a) to the extent required by law or for any administrative or judicial action or proceeding, or for law enforcement purposes;

(b) to other governmental entities at the discretion of the  , provided that such entities make adequate assurances to the   that they will not further disclose the shared information, including to members of the public; or

(c) to   in   with respect to transactions reviewed by that   pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 4565, in which case this information and analysis shall be treated consistent with the disclosure protections of 50 U.S.C. 4565(c).

 . 9. Recommendations by   to  .

(a) With respect to applications that are reviewed or assessed pursuant to section 5 of this order, the   shall:

(i) advise the   that the   has no recommendation for the   on the application and no objection to the   granting the license or transfer of the license;

(ii) recommend that the   deny the application due to the risk to the national security or law enforcement interests of  ; or

(iii) recommend that the   only grant the license or transfer of the license contingent on the applicant's compliance with mitigation measures, consistent with section 10 of this order.

(b) With respect to a license reviewed pursuant to section 6 of this order, the   may, when appropriate:

(i) recommend that the   modify the license to include a condition of compliance with mitigation measures negotiated by the  ;

(ii) recommend that the   revoke the license due to the risk to national security or law enforcement interests of  ; or

(iii) take no action with respect to the license.

(c) Any recommendation made by the   pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be based on a written risk-based analysis, conducted by the   Member entity or entities proposing the denial, mitigation measures, modification, revocation, or no action.

(d) The   shall make the recommendations described in subsections (a)(ii), (a)(iii), (b)(i), and (b)(ii) of this section if it determines that there is credible evidence that the application or license poses a risk to the national security or law enforcement interests of  .

(e) The   shall attempt to reach consensus on any recommendation authorized by this order. If senior executive   officials designated pursuant to subsection 3(e) of this order cannot reach consensus on a recommendation, the   shall present the issue to the Committee Members, who shall determine the   recommendation by majority vote. If the vote results in a tie, the   shall determine the recommendation.

(f) If the  's determination is a recommendation to deny an application, to grant an application contingent on compliance with non-standard mitigation measures, to modify a license to condition it upon compliance with non-standard mitigation measures, or to revoke a license, the   shall notify   and, to the extent consistent with applicable law, provide them all available assessments, evaluations, or other analyses regarding such determination. Within   of the notification, the Committee Advisors shall advise the   whether they oppose the recommendation.

(i) If one or more of   opposes the recommendation, the senior executives designated by   shall promptly confer in an effort to reach consensus on a recommendation. If consensus is reached, the recommendation shall be provided to the   consistent with subsection 9(h) of this order.

(ii) If the senior executives designated by   do not reach consensus, the   shall present the issue to the Committee Members and   to seek to resolve any objections within   of the notification by the Chair of a recommendation to deny or to grant an application contingent on compliance with non-standard mitigation, or within   in the case of a recommendation to modify a license to condition it upon compliance with non- standard mitigation measures or to revoke a license. Committee Members and   may consider any submissions by   (e.g., a countervailing risk assessment), as appropriate.

(iii) If   are unable to reach consensus through the foregoing process, the   Members identified in subsection 3(b) of this order shall determine a recommendation by majority vote. If the vote results in a tie, the   shall determine the recommendation.

(g) The   shall notify the President of any intended recommendation, and any opposition thereto by a   Member or  , within   of a majority or tie vote held under subsection 9(e) or 9(f)(iii) of this order if either the recommendation or any opposition thereto by a   Member or   involves the denial of an application, granting an application contingent on non-standard mitigation measures, modifying a license to condition it upon compliance with non-standard mitigation measures, or revoking a license. The   will receive notice of the recommendation, consistent with subsection 9(h) of this order, not   after the date on which the President is notified of the intended action.

(h) Except as provided in subsection (b)(iii) of this section, the  , on behalf of the  , shall notify the   through   ( ) of a final recommendation made pursuant to this section.   shall notify the   of the recommendation within   of the notification from the  .

(i) As necessary and in accordance with applicable law and policy, including procedures governing the handling of classified or otherwise privileged or protected information, the   may consider classified information and otherwise privileged or protected information in determining what recommendation to make to the   through   under this section, and may provide such information to the   as necessary on an ex parte basis.

 . 10.   and Monitoring.

(a) The   may recommend to the  , consistent with section 9 of this order, that the   condition the granting of a license or transfer of a license on compliance with any mitigation measures in order to mitigate a risk to the national security or law enforcement interests of   arising from the application.

(b) The   may recommend to the  , consistent with section 9 of this order, that the   modify a license to condition it upon compliance with any mitigation measures in order to mitigate a risk to national security or law enforcement interests of   arising from the license.

(c) Consistent with subsection 4(a)(v) of this order, the   or assigned Lead Member shall communicate any mitigation measures proposed by the   to the applicant or licensee.

(d) Any mitigation measures negotiated pursuant to this section shall be based on a written risk-based analysis.

(e) The   shall monitor any mitigation measures imposed by the   as a condition on a license.

(i) Committee Member entities, as appropriate, shall report to the   regarding any material noncompliance with any mitigation measures imposed by the   as a condition on a license as a result of the  's recommendation under subsections (a) through (d) of this section.

(ii) The  , in consultation with the  , as appropriate, and in a manner that does not unduly constrain   resources, shall develop methods for monitoring compliance with any mitigation measures imposed by the   as a condition on a license as a result of the  's recommendation under subsections (a) through (d) of this section.

(f) If the   determines that a licensee has not complied with a mitigation measure and has not cured any such noncompliance in a satisfactory manner, the   may recommend actions consistent with subsection 9(b) of this order.

(g) When requested by the  , the Director of   shall provide analyses assessing threats related to risk mitigation, compliance monitoring, and enforcement to   Member entities and   entities that are monitoring compliance with mitigation measures imposed by the   as conditions on licenses as a result of   recommendations under subsections (a) through (d) of this section.

(h) This order does not constrain the discretion of executive departments or agencies, pursuant to any relevant authority not described in this order, to:

(i) conduct inquiries with respect to an application or license;

(ii) communicate with any applicant, licensee, or other necessary party; or

(iii) negotiate, enter into, impose, or enforce contractual provisions with an applicant or licensee.

 . 11. Implementation.

(a) Executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement the provisions of this order.

(b)   shall provide such funding and administrative support for the   as the   may require. The heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide, as appropriate and to the extent permitted by law, such resources, information, and assistance as required to implement this order within their respective agencies, including the assignment of staff to perform the duties described in this order. An   liaison designated by the Director of   shall support the  , consistent with applicable law.

(c) Within   from the date of this order, the   Members shall enter into a Memorandum of Understanding among themselves and with the Director of   (or the Director's designee) describing their plan to implement and execute this order. The Memorandum of Understanding shall, among other things, delineate questions and requests for applicants and licensees that may be needed to acquire information necessary to conduct the reviews and assessments described in sections 5 and 6 of this order, define the standard mitigation measures developed in accordance with section 2(e) of this order, and outline the process for designating a Lead Member as described in section 4 of this order.

(d) The Chair, in coordination with the Committee Members and  , shall review the implementation of this order and provide a report to the President on an annual basis that identifies recommendations for relevant policy, administrative, or legislative proposals.

 . 12.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals;

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstances, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of any of its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
