Executive  —Task Force on  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , I hereby order the following:

Section 1

.

Policy

. (a)   ( ) accounts for almost half of global mail volume and is regularly cited as the Federal agency with the highest public approval rating. However, a number of factors, including the steep decline in First-Class Mail volume, coupled with legal mandates that compel the   to incur substantial and inflexible costs, have resulted in a structural deficit where revenues are no longer sufficient to fund the pension liabilities and retiree health obligations owed to current employees. The   is on an unsustainable financial path and must be restructured to prevent a taxpayer-funded bailout. This finding is supported by the following considerations, among others:

(i) the   has incurred $65 billion of cumulative losses since the   recession;

(ii) the   has been unable to make payments required by law for its retiree health benefit obligations, which totaled more than $38 billion at  ; and

(iii)   has had the   on its high-risk list since   because of a serious financial situation that puts the   mission of providing prompt, reliable, and efficient universal mail services at risk.

(b) It shall be the policy of my Administration that   postal system operate under a sustainable business model to provide necessary mail services to citizens and businesses, and to compete fairly in commercial markets.

 . 2

.

Establishment

. (a) There is hereby established   on   (Task Force), to be chaired by the Secretary of the  , as Secretary and as Chairman of  , or his designee, to evaluate the operations and finances of the  . In addition to the Chair of the Task Force (Chair), the Task Force shall be composed of the following department and agency heads, or their designees:

(i) the Director of  ;

(ii) the Director of  ; and

(iii) any other department and agency head the   may designate.

(b) The Task Force shall consult with   and the Chairman of  .

(c) The Task Force shall also engage:

(i) the Attorney General, on issues relating to government monopolies operating in the commercial marketplace;

(ii) the Secretary of  , on issues related to workers compensation programs; and

(iii) State, local, and tribal officials as determined by   with input from the Task Force members.

(d) The Task Force shall meet as required by the   and, unless extended by the  , shall be dissolved once it has accomplished the objectives set forth in sections 3 and  , as determined by the  , and completed the report described in section 5 of this order.

 . 3

.

Evaluation

. The Task Force shall conduct a thorough evaluation of the operations and finances of the  , including:

(i) the expansion and pricing of the package delivery market and the  's role in competitive markets;

(ii) the decline in mail volume and its implications for   self-financing and the   monopoly over letter delivery and mailboxes;

(iii) the definition of the "universal service obligation" in light of changes in technology, e-commerce, marketing practices, and customer needs;

(iv) the   role in the   economy and in rural areas, communities, and small towns; and

(v) the state of the   business model, workforce, operations, costs, and pricing.

 . 4

.

Recommendations for Reform

. The Task Force shall develop recommendations for administrative and legislative reforms to   postal system.

(a) Such recommendations shall promote our  's commerce and communication without shifting additional costs to taxpayers. The recommendations shall be developed in a manner that is consistent with the proposed plan to reorganize the executive branch as required by Executive Order   of  .

(b) Such recommendations shall also consider the views of the   workforce; commercial, non-profit, and residential users of the   services; and competitors in the marketplace.

 . 5

.

Report

.  , acting through the   and the Director of  , shall submit a report to the President, in coordination with the Directors of the Domestic Policy and National Economic Councils, not   after the date of this order. In its report, the Task Force shall summarize its findings and recommendations under sections 3 and 4 of this order.

 . 6

.

Administration

.   shall provide administrative support and funding for  .

Sec. 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
