Executive Order  —Establishment of   of  
 ,  
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and section 711 of   (Act) (Public Law 116-113), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Establishment of  .  ) is hereby established to coordinate the efforts of   to monitor the implementation and maintenance of the labor obligations of   and  , to monitor the implementation and maintenance of  's labor reform, and to recommend enforcement actions with respect to   or  , as provided for in section 715 of the Act.

 . 2

.

Membership

. The   shall be co-chaired by   and the Secretary of  , and shall include representatives of  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and    .   may invite representatives from other executive departments or agencies, as appropriate, to participate as members or observers. Each executive department, agency, and component represented on the   shall ensure that the necessary staff are available to assist their respective representatives in performing the responsibilities of  . The  , by consensus, may designate members to assist it in carrying out the functions described in the Act.

 . 3

.

Committee Decision-Making

. The   shall endeavor to make any decision on an action or determination under sections 712 through 719 of the Act by consensus, which shall be deemed to exist where no member objects to the proposed action or determination.

 . 4

.

Funding

. Each executive department and agency participating in the   shall bear its own expenses incurred in connection with the  's functions described in sections 711 through 719 of the Act.   will provide funding for the hotline required under section 717 of the Act.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
