Executive Order  —   
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), sections 305-308 of the   and   and Warfare Elimination Act of 1991 (CBW Act),   102-182 (50 U.S.C. App.  ; 22 U.S.C.  ,  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order   of  , as amended by and relied on for additional steps in subsequent Executive Orders, hereby order:

Section 1

. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, pursuant to section 307(b)(1) of the CBW Act, selects for imposition on a country one or more of the sanctions set forth below and in section 307(b)(2) of that Act, the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall take the following actions, when necessary, to implement such sanctions:

(i) oppose, in accordance with section 701 of   (22 U.S.C. 262d), the extension of any loan or financial or technical assistance to that country by international financial institutions; and

(ii) prohibit any   bank from making any loan or providing any credit to the government of that country, except for loans or credits for the purpose of purchasing food or other agricultural commodities or products.

(b) The prohibition in subsection (a)(ii) of this section applies except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 2

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate the prohibition set forth in section 1(a)(ii) of this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibition set forth in section 1(a)(ii) of this order is prohibited.

 . 3

. Subsection (b) of section 1 of Executive Order   ( ,  , and  ), is amended by adding the following new paragraph 4 after paragraph 3:

"(4) The authorities and duties vested in me to oppose certain multilateral development bank assistance and to prohibit certain bank loans as provided in section 307(b)(2)(A)-(B), pursuant to a determination made by the Secretary of   under section 307(b)(1), are delegated to the Secretary of the  ."

 . 4

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) the term "government" means a government, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, that government; and

(c) the term "  bank" means any entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including its foreign branches), or any entity in  , that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures, or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent.

 . 5

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and the CBW Act as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
