Executive Order 13944—  by  ,  , and   in  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

.   must protect our citizens, critical infrastructure, military forces, and economy against outbreaks of emerging infectious diseases and chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) threats. To achieve this,   must have a strong Public Health Industrial Base with resilient domestic supply chains for  , and   deemed necessary for  . These domestic supply chains must be capable of meeting national security requirements for responding to threats arising from CBRN threats and public health emergencies, including emerging infectious diseases such as  . It is critical that we reduce our dependence on foreign manufacturers for  , and   to ensure sufficient and reliable long-term domestic production of these products, to minimize potential shortages, and to mobilize our   to respond to these threats. It is therefore the policy of   to:

(a) accelerate the development of cost-effective and efficient domestic production of   and have adequate redundancy built into the domestic supply chain for  , and  ;

(b) ensure long-term demand for  , and   that are produced in  ;

(c) create, maintain, and maximize domestic production capabilities for  , and   that are essential to protect public safety and human health and to provide for the national defense; and

(d) combat the trafficking of counterfeit  ,  , and   over e commerce platforms and from third-party online sellers involved in the government procurement process.

I am therefore directing each executive department and agency involved in the procurement of  ,  , and   (agency) to consider a variety of actions to increase their domestic procurement of  ,  , and  , and to identify vulnerabilities in our  's supply chains for these products. Under this order, agencies will have the necessary flexibility to increase their domestic procurement in appropriate and responsible ways, while protecting our  's service members, veterans, and their families from increases in drug prices and without interfering with our  's ability to respond to the spread of  .

 . 2

.

  in Procurement

. (a) Agencies shall, as appropriate, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and in consultation with   (  Commissioner) with respect to  , use their respective authorities under section 2304(c) of title 10, United States Code; section 3304(a) of title 41, United States Code; and subpart 6.3 of  , title  , Code of Federal Regulations, to conduct the procurement of  ,  , and   by: (i) using procedures to limit competition to only those  ,  , and   that are produced in  ; and

(ii) dividing procurement requirements among two or more manufacturers located in  , as appropriate.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of   (OMB), in consultation with appropriate agency heads, shall:

(i) review the authority of each agency to limit the online procurement of   to e-commerce platforms that have:

(A) adopted, and certified their compliance with, the applicable best practices published by   in its Report to the President on "Combating Trafficking in Counterfeit and  ," dated  ; and

(B) agreed to permit     to evaluate and confirm their compliance with such best practices; and

(ii) report its findings to the President.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the head of each agency shall, in consultation with the   Commissioner, develop and implement procurement strategies, including long-term contracts, consistent with law, to strengthen and mobilize   in order to increase the manufacture of  ,  , and   in  .

(d)   after the   Commissioner has identified, pursuant to section 3(c) of this order, the initial list of  , and  ,   Representative shall, to the extent permitted by law, take all appropriate action to modify   Federal procurement product coverage under all relevant Free Trade Agreements and   to exclude coverage of  ,  , and  .   Representative shall further modify   Federal procurement product coverage, as appropriate, to reflect updates by the   Commissioner. After the modifications to   procurement coverage take effect,   Representative shall make any necessary, corresponding modifications of existing waivers under section 301 of the Trade Agreements Act of  .   Representative shall notify the President, through the Director of OMB, once it has taken the actions described in this subsection.

(e)   after the   Commissioner has identified, pursuant to section 3(c) of this order, the initial list of  , and  , and notwithstanding the public interest exception in subsection (f)(i)(1) of this section, the Secretary of   shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, use his authority under section 225.872-1(c) of   to restrict the procurement of  ,  , and   to domestic sources and to reject otherwise acceptable offers of such products from sources in   in instances where considered necessary for national defense reasons.

(f) Subsections (a), (d), and (e) of this section shall not apply:

(i) where the head of the agency determines in writing, with respect to a specific contract or order, that (1) their application would be inconsistent with the public interest; (2) the relevant Essential Medicines,  , and   are not produced in   in sufficient and reasonably available commercial quantities and of a satisfactory quality; or (3) their application would cause the cost of the procurement to increase by more than 25 percent, unless applicable law requires a higher percentage, in which case such higher percentage shall apply;

(ii) with respect to the procurement of items that are necessary to respond to any public health emergency declared under section 319 of   (42 U.S.C. 247d), any major disaster or emergency declared under the Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), or any national emergency declared under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.).

(g) To the maximum extent permitted by law, any public interest determination made pursuant to section 2(f)(i)(1) of this order shall be construed to maximize the procurement and use of   produced in  .

(h) The head of an agency who makes any determination pursuant to section 2(f)(i) of this order shall submit an   report to the President, through the Director of OMB and the Assistant to the President for Trade and Manufacturing Policy, describing the justification for each such determination.

 . 3

.

Identifying Vulnerabilities in  

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , through the   Commissioner and in consultation with the Director of OMB, shall take all necessary and appropriate action, consistent with law, to identify vulnerabilities in the supply chain for  , and   and to mitigate those vulnerabilities, including by:

(i) considering proposing regulations or revising guidance on the collection of the following information from manufacturers of   as part of the application and regulatory approval process:

(A) the sources of  ,  , and  ;

(B) the use of any scarce  ; and

(C) the date of the last   inspection of the manufacturer's regulated facilities and the results of such inspection;

(ii) entering into written agreements, pursuant to section 20.85 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, with  ,  ,  , and other interested agencies, as appropriate, to disclose records regarding the security and vulnerabilities of the supply chains for  , and  ;

(iii) recommending to the President any changes in applicable law that may be necessary to accomplish the objectives of this subsection; and

(iv) reviewing   regulations to determine whether any of those regulations may be a barrier to domestic production of  , and  , and by advising the President whether such regulations should be repealed or amended.

(b) The Secretary of  , through the   Commissioner, shall take all appropriate action, consistent with applicable law, to:

(i) accelerate   approval or clearance, as appropriate, for domestic producers of  , and  , including those needed for infectious disease and CBRN threat preparedness and response; (ii) issue guidance with recommendations regarding the development of   techniques;

(iii) negotiate with countries to increase site inspections and increase the number of unannounced inspections of regulated facilities manufacturing  ,  , and  ; and

(iv) refuse admission, as appropriate, to imports of  ,  , and   if the facilities in which they are produced refuse or unreasonably delay an inspection.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, and periodically updated as appropriate, the   Commissioner, in consultation with the Director of OMB, the Assistant Secretary for   and Response in  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Director of  , shall identify the list of  , and their Critical Inputs that are medically necessary to have available at all times in an amount adequate to serve patient needs and in the appropriate dosage forms.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Director of OMB, shall take all necessary and appropriate action, consistent with law, to identify vulnerabilities in the supply chain for  , and   necessary to meet the unique needs of   and to mitigate the vulnerabilities identified in subsection (a) of this section. The Secretary of   shall provide to the Secretary of  , the   Commissioner, the Director of OMB, and the Director of   a list of defense-specific  ,  , and   that are medically necessary to have available for defense use in adequate amounts and in appropriate dosage forms. The Secretary of   shall, as appropriate, periodically update this list.

 . 4

.

Streamlining Regulatory Requirements

. Consistent with law,   shall take all appropriate action to identify relevant requirements and guidance documents that can be streamlined to provide for the development of   facilities and the expeditious domestic production of  , including by accelerating siting and permitting approvals.

 . 5

.

Priorities and Allocation of Essential Medicines,  , and  

. The Secretary of   shall, as appropriate and in accordance with the delegation of authority under Executive Order 13603 of   (National Defense Resources Preparedness), use the authority under section 101 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C.  ), to prioritize the performance of   contracts or orders for  , or   over performance of any other contracts or orders, and to allocate such materials, services, and facilities as the Secretary deems necessary or appropriate to promote the national defense.

 . 6

.

Reporting

. (a) No later than December 15,  , and   thereafter, the head of each agency shall submit a report to the President, through the Director of OMB and the Assistant to the President for Trade and Manufacturing Policy, detailing, for  :

(i)  , and   procured by the agency;

(ii) the agency's   itemized and aggregated expenditures for all Essential Medicines,  , and  ; (iii) the sources of these products and inputs; and

(iv) the agency's plan to support domestic production of such products and inputs in  .

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall submit a report to the Director of OMB, the Assistant to the President for  , the Director of  , and the Director of  , describing any change in the status of   and recommending initiatives to strengthen  .

(c) To the maximum extent permitted by law, and with the redaction of any information protected by law from disclosure, each agency's report shall be published in   and on each agency's official website.

 . 7

.

Definitions

. As used in this order:

(a) "Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient" has the meaning set forth in section 207.1 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations.

(b) "Advanced Manufacturing" means any new medical product manufacturing technology that can improve drug quality, address shortages of medicines, and speed time to market, including continuous manufacturing and 3D printing.

(c) "API Starting Material" means a raw or intermediate material that is used in the manufacturing of an  , that is incorporated as a significant structural fragment into the structure of the  , and that is determined by the   Commissioner to be relevant in assessing the safety and effectiveness of  .

(d) "Critical Inputs" means  ,  , and other ingredients of drugs and components of medical devices that the   Commissioner determines to be critical in assessing the safety and effectiveness of  .

(e) "Essential Medicines" are those Essential Medicines deemed necessary for   pursuant to section 3(c) of this order.

(f) "Finished Device" has the meaning set forth in section 820.3(l) of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations.

(g) "Finished Drug Product" has the meaning set forth in section 207.1 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations.

(h) "  Sector" means the critical infrastructure sector identified in Presidential Policy Directive 21 of   (Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience), and   of  .

(i) An Essential Medicine or Medical Countermeasure is "produced in  " if   used to produce   are produced in   and if   or  , are manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed, as those terms are defined in section 360(a)(1) of title 21, United States Code, in  .

(j) "Medical Countermeasures" means items that meet the definition of "qualified countermeasure" in section 247d-6a(a)(2)(A) of title  , United States Code; "qualified pandemic or epidemic product" in section 247d-6d(i)(7) of title  , United States Code; "security countermeasure" in section 247d-6b(c)(1)(B) of title  , United States Code; or personal protective equipment described in part   of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations.

(k) "Public Health Industrial Base" means the facilities and associated workforces within  , including research and development facilities, that help produce  ,  , and   for the   and Public Health Sector.

(l) "Qualifying Countries" has the meaning set forth in section 225.003,  .

 . 8

.

Rule of Construction

. Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(a) the ability of  , local, tribal, or territorial governments to timely procure necessary resources to respond to any public health emergency declared under section 319 of   (42 U.S.C. 247d), any major disaster or emergency declared under the Stafford Act (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), or any national emergency declared under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.);

(b) the ability or authority of any agency to respond to the spread of  ; or

(c) the authority of the Secretary of   to take all necessary steps, including those necessary to implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, to ensure that service members, veterans, and their families continue to have full access to Essential Medicines at reasonable and affordable prices.

 . 9

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of any of its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 10

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
