Executive Order  —Reimposing Certain Sanctions With Respect to  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172) (50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended ( ),  , Accountability, and Divestment Act of   (Public Law 111-195) (22 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), as amended ( ), the   Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of   (Public Law 112-158) ( ),   of   (subtitle D of title   of Public Law 112-239) (22 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IFCA), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  ,

I,  ,

President of  , in light of my decision on  , to cease the participation of   in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action of   (JCPOA), and to re-impose all sanctions lifted or waived in connection with the JCPOA as expeditiously as possible and in no case   from  , as outlined in   Memorandum-11 of   (Ceasing United States Participation in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and Taking Additional Action to     and Deny Iran All Paths to a Nuclear Weapon), and to advance the goal of applying financial pressure on the   regime in pursuit of a comprehensive and lasting solution to the full range of the threats posed by  , including  's proliferation and development of missiles and other asymmetric and conventional weapons capabilities, its network and campaign of regional aggression, its support for terrorist groups, and the malign activities of   and its surrogates, hereby order as follows:

Section 1

.

Blocking Sanctions Relating to Support for the Government of  's Purchase or Acquisition of U.S. Bank Notes or Precious Metals; Certain Iranian Persons; and  's  , and   and Port Operators

. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to impose on a person the measures described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that:

(i) on or after  , the person has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the purchase or acquisition of   bank notes or precious metals by  ;

(ii) on or after  , the person has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of,   ( ),   (NICO), or  ;

(iii) on or after  , the person has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of: (A) any   person included on the list of   and Blocked Persons maintained by   (SDN List) (other than an   depository institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order 13599 of  ); or

(B) any other person included on the   whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (a) of this section or Executive Order   (other than an   depository institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order  ); or

(iv) pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, sanctions shall be imposed on such person pursuant to section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA because the person:

(A) is part of the energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors of  ;

(B) operates a port in  ; or

(C) knowingly provides significant financial, material, technological, or other support to, or goods or services in support of any activity or transaction on behalf of a person determined under section 1244(c)(2)(A) of IFCA to be a part of the energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors of  ; a person determined under section 1244(c)(2)(B) of IFCA to operate a port in  ; or an   person included on   (other than a person described in section 1244(c)(3) of IFCA).

(b) With respect to any person determined by the Secretary of the   in accordance with this section to meet any of the criteria set forth in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(iv) of this section, all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of such person are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order or, where specifically provided, the effective date of the prohibition.

 . 2

.

Correspondent and   to  's  ; Certain Iranian Persons; and   in Iranian Petroleum,  , and  . (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution has knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction:

(i) on or after  , for the sale, supply, or transfer to   of significant goods or services used in connection with the automotive sector of  ;

(ii) on or after  , on behalf of any   person included on   (other than an   depository institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order  ) or any other person included on the   whose property and interests in property are

blocked pursuant to subsection 1(a) of this order or Executive Order   (other than an   depository institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order  );

(iii) on or after  , with   or  , except for a sale or provision to   or NICO of the products described in section 5(a)(3)(A)(i) of   provided that the fair market value of such products is lower than the applicable dollar threshold specified in that provision;

(iv) on or after  , for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petroleum or petroleum products from  ; or

(v) on or after  , for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petrochemical products from  .

(b) With respect to any foreign financial institution determined by the Secretary of the   in accordance with this section to meet any of the criteria set forth in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(v) of this section, the Secretary of the   may prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the maintaining, in   of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by such foreign financial institution.

(c) Subsections (a)(ii)-(a)(iv) of this section shall apply with respect to a significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from   only if:

(i) the President determines under subparagraphs (4)(B) and (C) of subsection 1245(d) of   for   (Public Law 112-81) (  NDAA) (  8513a) that there is a sufficient supply of petroleum and petroleum products from countries other than   to permit a significant reduction in the volume of petroleum and petroleum products purchased from   by or through foreign financial institutions; and

(ii) an exception under subparagraph 4(D) of subsection 1245(d) of the   NDAA from the imposition of sanctions under paragraph (1) of that subsection does not apply.

(d) Subsection (a)(ii) of this section shall not apply with respect to a significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution for the sale, supply, or transfer to or from   of natural gas only if the financial transaction is solely for trade between the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution and  , and any funds owed to   as a result of such trade are credited to an account located in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution.

(e) Subsections (a)(ii)-(a)(v) of this section shall not apply with respect to any person for conducting or facilitating a transaction for the provision (including any sale) of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to  .

(f) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order or, where specifically provided, the effective date of the prohibition.

 . 3

.

"Menu-based" Sanctions Relating to  's   in Iranian Petroleum,  , and  . (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , and with the President of  , the Chairman of   of  , and other agencies and officials as appropriate, is hereby authorized to impose on a person any of the sanctions described in section 4 or 5 of this order upon determining that the person:

(i) on or after  , knowingly engaged in a significant transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to   of significant goods or services used in connection with the automotive sector of  ;

(ii) on or after  , knowingly engaged in a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petroleum or petroleum products from  ;

(iii) on or after  , knowingly engaged in a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petrochemical products from  ;

(iv) is a successor entity to a person determined by the Secretary of   in accordance with this section to meet any of the criteria set forth in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(iii) of this section;

(v) owns or controls a person determined by the Secretary of   in accordance with this section to meet any of the criteria set forth in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(iii) of this section, and had knowledge that the person engaged in the activities referred to in those subsections; or

(vi) is owned or controlled by, or under common ownership or control with, a person determined by the Secretary of   in accordance with this section to meet any of the criteria set forth in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(iii) of this section, and knowingly participated in the activities referred to in those subsections.

(b) Subsection (a)(ii) of this section shall apply with respect to a person only if:

(i) the President determines under subparagraphs (4)(B) and (C) of subsection 1245(d) of the   NDAA that there is a sufficient supply of petroleum and petroleum products from countries other than   to permit a significant reduction in the volume of petroleum and petroleum products purchased from   by or through foreign financial institutions; and

(ii) an exception under subparagraph 4(D) of subsection 1245(d) of the   NDAA from the imposition of sanctions under paragraph (1) of that subsection does not apply.

 . 4

.

Agency Implementation Authorities for "Menu-based" Sanctions

. When the Secretary of  , in accordance with the terms of section 3 of this order, has determined that a person meets any of the criteria described in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(vi) of that section and has selected any of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the heads of relevant agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of  , as appropriate, shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions imposed by the Secretary of  :

(a)   of   shall deny approval of the issuance of any guarantee, insurance, extension of credit, or participation in an extension of credit in connection with the export of any goods or services to the sanctioned person;

(b) agencies shall not issue any specific license or grant any other specific permission or authority under any statute or regulation that requires the prior review and approval of   as a condition for the export or reexport of goods or technology to the sanctioned person;

(c) with respect to a sanctioned person that is a financial institution:

(i) the Chairman of   of   and the President of   of   shall take such actions as they deem appropriate, including denying designation, or terminating the continuation of any prior designation of, the sanctioned person as a primary dealer in   debt instruments; or

(ii) agencies shall prevent the sanctioned person from serving as an agent of   or serving as a repository for   funds;

(d) agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person;

(e) the Secretary of   shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of   shall exclude from  , any alien that the Secretary of   determines is a corporate officer or principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, a sanctioned person; or

(f) the heads of the relevant agencies, as appropriate, shall impose on the principal executive officer or officers, or persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities, of a sanctioned person the sanctions described in subsections (a)-(e) of this section, as selected by the Secretary of  .

(g) The prohibitions in subsections (a)-(f) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order or, where specifically provided, the effective date of the prohibition.

 . 5

.

Additional Implementation Authorities for "Menu-based" Sanctions

. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions described in section 6(a) of   shall be imposed on a person pursuant to  ,  ,  , or IFCA and has selected one or more of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person or when the Secretary of  , in accordance with the terms of section 3 of this order, has determined that a person meets any of the criteria described in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(vi) of that section and has selected one or more of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the  :

(i) prohibit any   financial institution from making loans or providing credits to the sanctioned person totaling more than $10,000,000 in any   period, unless such person is engaged in activities to relieve human suffering and the loans or credits are provided for such activities;

(ii) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of   and in which the sanctioned person has any interest;

(iii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of   and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;

(iv) block all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the sanctioned person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;

(v) prohibit any   person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of a sanctioned person;

(vi) restrict or prohibit imports of goods, technology, or services, directly or indirectly, into   from the sanctioned person; or

(vii) impose on the principal executive officer or officers, or persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities, of a sanctioned person the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(vi) of this section, as selected by the President or Secretary of   or the Secretary of the  , as appropriate.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order or, where specifically provided, the effective date of the prohibition.

 . 6

.

Sanctions Relating to the   Rial

. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution has, on or after  

(i) knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant transaction related to the purchase or sale of   rials or a derivative, swap, future, forward, or other similar contract whose value is based on the exchange rate of the   rial; or

(ii) maintained significant funds or accounts outside the territory of   denominated in the   rial.

(b) With respect to any foreign financial institution determined by the Secretary of the   in accordance with this section to meet the criteria set forth in subsection (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of this section, the Secretary of the   may:

(i) prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the maintaining, in   of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by such foreign financial institution; or

(ii) block all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of such foreign financial institution, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order or, where specifically provided, the effective date of the prohibition.

 . 7

.

Sanctions with   to   for the People of Iran,   to   that are Likely to be Used to  , and Censorship

. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with or at the recommendation of the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to impose on a person the measures described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the person:

(i) has engaged, on or after  , in corruption or other activities relating to the diversion of goods, including agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices, intended for the people of  ;

(ii) has engaged, on or after  , in corruption or other activities relating to the misappropriation of proceeds from the sale or resale of goods described in subsection (a)(i) of this section;

(iii) has knowingly, on or after  , transferred, or facilitated the transfer of, goods or technologies to  , any entity organized under the laws of   or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of  , or any national of  , for use in or with respect to  , that are likely to be used by   or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or by any other person on behalf of   or any of such agencies or instrumentalities, to commit serious human rights abuses against the people of  ;

(iv) has knowingly, on or after  , provided services, including services relating to hardware, software, or specialized information or professional consulting, engineering, or support services, with respect to goods or technologies that have been transferred to   and that are likely to be used by   or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or by any other person on behalf of   or any of such agencies or instrumentalities, to commit serious human rights abuses against the people of  ;

(v) has engaged in censorship or other activities with respect to   on or after  , that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedom of expression or assembly by citizens of  , or that limit access to print or broadcast media, including the facilitation or support of intentional frequency manipulation by   or an entity owned or controlled by   that would jam or restrict an international signal;

(vi) has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the activities described in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(v) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section; or

(vii) is owned or controlled by, or has acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.

(b) With respect to any person determined by the Secretary of the   in accordance with this section to meet any of the criteria set forth in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(vii) of this section, all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of such person are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order or, where specifically provided, the effective date of the prohibition.

 . 8

.

Entities Owned or   by   Person and   or    

. (a) No entity owned or controlled by a   person and established or maintained outside   may knowingly engage in any transaction, directly or indirectly, with   or any person subject to the jurisdiction of  , if that transaction would be prohibited by Executive Order  , Executive Order   of  , Executive Order   of  , Executive Order  , or sections 1 or 15 of this order, or any regulation issued pursuant to the foregoing, if the transaction were engaged in by a   person or in  .

(b) Penalties assessed for violations of the prohibition in subsection (a) of this section, and any related violations of section 15 of this order may be assessed against   person that owns or controls the entity that engaged in the prohibited transaction.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply, except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order or, where specifically provided, the effective date of the prohibition, except to the extent provided in subsection 20(c) of this order.

 . 9

.

Revoking and Superseding Prior Executive Orders

. The following   are revoked and superseded:

(a) Executive Order   of   (Authorizing the Implementation of Certain Sanctions Set Forth in the   Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of   and Additional Sanctions With Respect to  ); and

(b) Executive Order  Revocation of Executive Orders 13574,  ,  , and   With   to  , Amendment of Executive Order   With   to  , and   Commitments Under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action of  ).

 . 10

.

Natural Gas Project Exception

. Subsections 1(a), 2(a)(ii)-(a)(v), 3(a)(ii)-(a)(iii), and, with respect to a person determined by the Secretary of   in accordance with section 3 to meet the criteria of 3(a)(ii)-(iii), 3(a)(iv)-(vi) of this order shall not apply with respect to any person for conducting or facilitating a transaction involving a project described in subsection (a) of section 603 of TRA to which the exception under that section applies.

 . 11

.

Donations

. I hereby determine that, to the extent section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) may apply, the making of donations of the types of articles specified in such section by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by subsections 1(b), 5(a)(iv),  ), and 7(b) of this order.

 . 12

.

Prohibitions

. The prohibitions in subsections 1(b), 5(a)(iv),  ), and 7(b) of this order include:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 13

.

Entry into  

. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsections 1(a), 3(a), and 7(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and the entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).

 . 14

.

General Authorities

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, to employ all powers granted to me by   and sections  ), 6(a)(7), 6(a)(8), 6(a)(9), 6(a)(11), and 6(a)(12) of  , and to employ all powers granted to   by section 6(a)(3) of  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order, other than the purposes described in sections 3,  , and 13 of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 15

.

Evasion and Conspiracy

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order or in Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , or Executive Order   is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order or in Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , or Executive Order   is prohibited.

 . 16

.

Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "automotive sector of  " means the manufacturing or assembling in   of light and heavy vehicles including passenger cars, trucks, buses, minibuses, pick-up trucks, and motorcycles, as well as original equipment manufacturing and after-market parts manufacturing relating to such vehicles;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "financial institution" includes (i) a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(1) of  ) (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1)), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of  ) (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)); (ii) a credit union; (iii) a securities firm, including a broker or dealer; (iv) an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and (v) any other company that provides financial services;

(d) the term "foreign financial institution" means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes, but is not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2),  ,  , or any other international financial institution so notified by the Secretary of the  ;

(e) the term "Government of Iran" includes  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including  , and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran;

(f) the term " " means   and the territory of   and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and   shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements;

(g) the term "  depository institution" means any entity (including foreign branches), wherever located, organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within  , or owned or controlled by  , or in  , or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing, that is engaged primarily in the business of banking (for example, banks, savings banks, savings associations, credit unions, trust companies, and bank holding companies);

(h) the term "  person" means an individual who is a citizen or national of   or an entity organized under the laws of   or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran;

(i) the terms "knowledge" and "knowingly," with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, mean that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result;

(j) the terms " " and "NICO" mean   and any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of,  ;

(k) the terms "National Iranian Oil Company" and "NIOC" mean   and any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of,  ;

(l) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(m) the term "petrochemical products" includes any aromatic, olefin, and synthesis gas, and any of their derivatives, including ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene, toluene, xylene,  , methanol, and urea;

(n) the term "petroleum" (also known as crude oil) means a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in natural underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface separating facilities;

(o) the term "petroleum products" includes unfinished oils, liquefied petroleum gases, pentanes plus, aviation gasoline, motor gasoline, naphtha-type jet fuel, kerosene-type jet fuel, kerosene, distillate fuel oil, residual fuel oil, petrochemical feedstocks, special naphthas, lubricants, waxes, petroleum coke, asphalt, road oil, still gas, and miscellaneous products obtained from the processing of: crude oil (including lease condensate), natural gas, and other hydrocarbon compounds. The term does not include natural gas, liquefied natural gas, biofuels,  , and other non-petroleum fuels;

(p) the term "sanctioned person" means a person that the President, or the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined is a person on whom sanctions described in section 6(a) of   shall be imposed pursuant to  ,  ,  , or IFCA, and on whom the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the   has imposed any of the sanctions in section 6(a) of   or a person on whom the Secretary of  , in accordance with the terms of section 3 of this order, has decided to impose sanctions pursuant to section 3 of this order;

(q) the term "subject to the jurisdiction of  " means a person organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within  , ordinarily resident in  , or in  , or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing;

(r) the term "  financial institution" means a financial institution as defined in subsection (c) of this section (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   or located in  ; and

(s) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 17

.

Notice

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to subsections 1(b), 5(a)(iv),  ), and 7(b) of this order.

 . 18

.

Delegation to Implement Section 104A of  

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by  , as may be necessary to carry out section 104A of   (22 U.S.C.  ). The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  .

 . 19

.

Rights

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 20

.

Effect on Actions or Proceedings,  , and Regulations, Orders,  , and  . (a) Pursuant to section 202 of the   (  1622), the revocation of     as set forth in section 9 of this order, shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the effective date of this order, or any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to the effective date of this order, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to the effective date of this order.

(b) Except to the extent provided in statutes or regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the following are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: all property and interests in property that were blocked pursuant to Executive Order   and remained blocked immediately prior to the effective date of this order.

(c) Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, all regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that were issued pursuant to Executive Order   and remained in effect immediately prior to the effective date of this order are hereby authorized to remain in effect—subject to their existing terms and conditions—pursuant to this order, which continues in effect certain sanctions set forth in Executive Order  .

 . 21

.

Relationship to Algiers Accords

. The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the   Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.

 . 22

.

Effective Date

. This order is effective 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
