Executive Order  —  to   COVID-19 Vaccines
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. Through unprecedented collaboration across  , industry, and international partners,   expects to soon have safe and effective   vaccines available for the   people. To ensure the health and safety of our citizens, to strengthen our economy, and to enhance the security of our Nation, we must ensure that   have priority access to   vaccines developed in   or procured by   ("United States Government COVID-19 Vaccines").

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to ensure   have priority access to free, safe, and effective   vaccines. After ensuring the ability to meet the vaccination needs of the   people, it is in the interest of   to facilitate international access to  .

 . 3

.

American Access to COVID-19 Vaccines

. (a) The Secretary of  , through Operation Warp Speed and with the support of the Secretary of  , shall ensure safe and effective   vaccines are available to the   people, coordinating with public and private entities—including  , territorial, and tribal governments, where appropriate—to enable the timely distribution of such vaccines.

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the heads of other executive departments and agencies (agencies), as appropriate, shall ensure that   have priority access to  , and shall ensure that the most vulnerable   populations have first access to such vaccines.

(c) The Secretary of   shall ensure that a sufficient supply of   vaccine doses is available for all   who choose to be vaccinated in order to safeguard   from  .

 . 4

.

International Access to United States Government COVID-19 Vaccines

. After determining that there exists a sufficient supply of   vaccine doses for all   who choose to be vaccinated, as required by section 3(b) of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , in coordination with  , the Chief Executive Officer of  , the Chairman and President of  , and the heads of other agencies, shall facilitate international access to   for allies, partners, and others, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 5

.

Coordination of International Access to United States Government COVID-19 Vaccines

. Within   of the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for   shall coordinate development of an interagency strategy for the implementation of section 4 of this order.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
