Executive Order  — 
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the National Security Act of  , as amended, I hereby order the following:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to maintain comprehensive and effective continuity programs that ensure national security and the preservation of government structure under   and in alignment with Presidential Policy Directive-40 (PPD-40) of   (National Continuity Policy). Executive departments and agencies (agencies), including   of the President, must maintain the capability and capacity to continuously perform   (NEFs), as defined by PPD-40, regardless of threat or condition, and with the understanding that adequate warning may not be available.   heads must fully integrate preparedness programs, including continuity and risk management, into day-to-day operations to ensure the preservation of the NEFs under all conditions.

 . 2

.

Federal Mission Resilience Strategy

. To achieve this policy, in conjunction with this order, I am signing   (Strategy), which should be implemented to increase the resilience of the executive branch. Implementing the Strategy will reduce the current reliance on reactive relocation of personnel and enhance a proactive posture that minimizes disruption, distributes risk to the performance of NEFs, and maximizes the cost-effectiveness of actions that ensure continuity of operations, continuity of government, and enduring constitutional government.

 . 3

.

Executive Committee

. (a)   (Executive Committee) is hereby established.

(b)   shall be composed of the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for  , and the Director of  . When issues concerning science and technology, including communications technology, are on the agenda,   also shall include the Director of   ( ). The heads of other agencies, and other senior officials, shall be invited to attend meetings as appropriate.

(c) The APNSA, in coordination with the other members of  , shall be responsible for convening the committee, as appropriate, to coordinate the review, integration, and execution of the Strategy and other continuity policy across the executive branch.

(d)   shall:

(i) coordinate the development of an implementation plan (Plan) for the Strategy and other continuity policy, as described in section 4(b) of this order, and shall facilitate execution of the   and other continuity policy, as appropriate;

(ii) advise the President, through the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff (Chief of Staff), on the review, integration, and execution of the Strategy and other continuity policy, including the recommendations outlined in section 4(c) of this order; (iii) establish, with consensus of its members and as appropriate, subordinate coordinating bodies; and

(iv) coordinate the development of an interagency framework under which agencies will assess and address risk to   and NEFs across the executive branch.

 . 4

.

Implementation

. (a) Within   of the date of this order,   shall submit a   to the President, through the Chief of Staff, that identifies any subordinate bodies, working groups, and reporting mechanisms that support the role of  .

(b) Within   of the date of this order,   shall submit a Federal Mission Resilience Implementation Plan to the President, through the Chief of Staff, that sets forth how the executive branch will implement the Strategy. The Plan shall describe in detail the near-, mid , and long-term actions necessary to ensure the uninterrupted performance of NEFs.

(c) Within   of this order,   shall coordinate the review of existing continuity policy and other related national policies, and shall provide recommendations to the President, through the Chief of Staff, on any actions necessary to align these policies with the implementation of the Strategy.

 . 5

.

Amendment to PPD-40

. To designate a new   (NCC), in section 6 of PPD-40, the second sentence is hereby revised to read as follows: "To advise and assist the President in that function, the Assistant to the President for  , or his or her designee, is designated as the NCC."

Sec. 6

.

Amendments to Executive Order  

. (a) Section 2.3 of Executive Order   (Assignment of National Security and Emergency Preparedness Communications Functions), is hereby revised to read as follows:

"The Director of   is delegated the authority to exercise the authorities vested in the President by section 706(a), and (c) through (e) of the Communications Act of  , as amended (47 U.S.C. 606(a), and (c) through (e)), if the President takes the actions, including issuing any necessary proclamations and findings, required by that section to invoke those authorities. This delegation shall apply to any provisions of any future public law that are the same or substantially the same as the provisions referenced in this section."

(b) Section 3 of Executive Order   is hereby revoked. The responsibilities of the national security and emergency preparedness   set forth in section 3.3 of Executive Order   shall be transferred to and exercised by   established in section 3 of this order.

 . 7

.

Program Support

. The national security and emergency preparedness   established by section 4 of Executive Order   shall support   established in section 3 of this order, the execution of activities described in section 4 of this order, and those activities taken by the Director of   pursuant to section 6 of this order.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
