Executive Order  —Promoting the Use of Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence in  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. Artificial intelligence (AI) promises to drive the growth of   economy and improve the quality of life of all  . In alignment with Executive Order   of   (  in  ), executive departments and agencies (agencies) have recognized the power of   to improve their operations, processes, and procedures; meet strategic goals; reduce costs; enhance oversight of the use of taxpayer funds; increase efficiency and mission effectiveness; improve quality of services; improve safety; train workforces; and support decision making by the Federal workforce, among other positive developments. Given the broad applicability of  , nearly every agency and those served by those agencies can benefit from the appropriate use of  .

Agencies are already leading the way in the use of   by applying it to accelerate regulatory reform; review Federal solicitations for regulatory compliance; combat fraud, waste, and abuse committed against taxpayers; identify information security threats and assess trends in related illicit activities; enhance the security and interoperability of   information systems; facilitate review of large datasets; streamline processes for grant applications; model weather patterns; facilitate predictive maintenance; and much more.

Agencies are encouraged to continue to use  , when appropriate, to benefit the   people. The ongoing adoption and acceptance of   will depend significantly on public trust. Agencies must therefore design, develop, acquire, and use   in a manner that fosters public trust and confidence while protecting privacy, civil rights, civil liberties, and   values, consistent with applicable law and the goals of Executive Order  .

Certain agencies have already adopted guidelines and principles for the use of   for national security or defense purposes, such as  ( ), and   for  

( ) and its

Artificial Intelligence Ethics Framework for  ( ). Such guidelines and principles ensure that the use of   in those contexts will benefit the   people and be worthy of their trust.

Section 3 of this order establishes additional principles (Principles) for the use of   in   for purposes other than national security and defense, to similarly ensure that such uses are consistent with our  's values and are beneficial to the public. This order further establishes a process for implementing these   through common policy guidance across agencies.

 . 2

.

Policy

. (a) It is the policy of   to promote the innovation and use of  , where appropriate, to improve Government operations and services in a manner that fosters public trust, builds confidence in  , protects our  's values, and remains consistent with all applicable laws, including those related to privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties.

(b) It is the policy of   that responsible agencies, as defined in section 8 of this order, shall, when considering the design, development, acquisition, and use of  , be guided by the common set of   set forth in section 3 of this order, which are designed to foster public trust and confidence in the use of  , protect our  's values, and ensure that the use of   remains consistent with all applicable laws, including those related to privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties.

(c) It is the policy of   that the Principles for the use of   in Government shall be governed by common policy guidance issued by   (OMB) as outlined in section 4 of this order, consistent with applicable law.

 . 3

.

Principles for Use of AI in Government

. When designing, developing, acquiring, and using   in  , agencies shall adhere to the following Principles:

(a) Lawful and respectful of our  's values. Agencies shall design, develop, acquire, and use   in a manner that exhibits due respect for our  's values and is consistent with the Constitution and all other applicable laws and policies, including those addressing privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties.

(b) Purposeful and performance-driven. Agencies shall seek opportunities for designing, developing, acquiring, and using  , where the benefits of doing so significantly outweigh the risks, and the risks can be assessed and managed.

(c) Accurate, reliable, and effective. Agencies shall ensure that their application of   is consistent with the use cases for which that   was trained, and such use is accurate, reliable, and effective.

(d) Safe, secure, and resilient. Agencies shall ensure the safety, security, and resiliency of their   applications, including resilience when confronted with systematic vulnerabilities, adversarial manipulation, and other malicious exploitation.

(e) Understandable. Agencies shall ensure that the operations and outcomes of their   applications are sufficiently understandable by subject matter experts, users, and others, as appropriate.

(f) Responsible and traceable. Agencies shall ensure that human roles and responsibilities are clearly defined, understood, and appropriately assigned for the design, development, acquisition, and use of  . Agencies shall ensure that   is used in a manner consistent with these Principles and the purposes for which each use of   is intended. The design, development, acquisition, and use of  , as well as relevant inputs and outputs of particular   applications, should be well documented and traceable, as appropriate and to the extent practicable.

(g) Regularly monitored. Agencies shall ensure that their   applications are regularly tested against these  . Mechanisms should be maintained to supersede, disengage, or deactivate existing applications of   that demonstrate performance or outcomes that are inconsistent with their intended use or this order.

(h) Transparent. Agencies shall be transparent in disclosing relevant information regarding their use of   to appropriate stakeholders, including the   and the public, to the extent practicable and in accordance with applicable laws and policies, including with respect to the protection of privacy and of sensitive law enforcement, national security, and other protected information.

(i) Accountable. Agencies shall be accountable for implementing and enforcing appropriate safeguards for the proper use and functioning of their applications of  , and shall monitor, audit, and document compliance with those safeguards. Agencies shall provide appropriate training to all agency personnel responsible for the design, development, acquisition, and use of  .

 . 4

.

Implementation of Principles

. (a) Existing OMB policies currently address many aspects of information and information technology design, development, acquisition, and use that apply, but are not unique, to  . To the extent they are consistent with the   set forth in this order and applicable law, these existing policies shall continue to apply to relevant aspects of   use in  .

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of OMB (Director), in coordination with key stakeholders identified by the Director, shall publicly post a roadmap for the policy guidance that OMB intends to create or revise to better support the use of  , consistent with this order. This roadmap shall include, where appropriate, a schedule for engaging with the public and timelines for finalizing relevant policy guidance. In addressing novel aspects of the use of  , OMB shall consider updates to the breadth of its policy guidance, including  .

(c) Agencies shall continue to use voluntary consensus standards developed with industry participation, where available, when such use would not be inconsistent with applicable law or otherwise impracticable. Such standards shall also be taken into consideration by OMB when revising or developing   guidance.

 . 5

.

Agency Inventory of AI Use Cases

. (a) Within   of this order, the Federal Chief Information Officers Council (CIO Council), in coordination with other interagency bodies as it deems appropriate, shall identify, provide guidance on, and make publicly available the criteria, format, and mechanisms for agency inventories of non-classified and non-sensitive use cases of   by agencies.

(b) Within   of   completion of the directive in section 5(a) of this order, and annually thereafter, each agency shall prepare an inventory of its non-classified and non-sensitive use cases of  , within the scope defined by section 9 of this order, including current and planned uses, consistent with the agency's mission.

(c) As part of their respective inventories of   use cases, agencies shall identify, review, and assess existing   deployed and operating in support of agency missions for any inconsistencies with this order.

(i) Within   of completing their respective inventories, agencies shall develop plans either to achieve consistency with this order for each   application or to retire AI applications found to be developed or used in a manner that is not consistent with this order. These plans must be approved by the agency-designated responsible official(s), as described in section 8 of this order, within this same   time period.

(ii) In coordination with the Agency Data Governance Body and relevant officials from agencies not represented within that body, agencies shall strive to implement the approved plans within   of plan approval, subject to existing resource levels.

(d) Within   of the completion of their respective inventories of use cases of  , agencies shall share their inventories with other agencies, to the extent practicable and consistent with applicable law and policy, including those concerning protection of privacy and of sensitive law enforcement, national security, and other protected information. This sharing shall be coordinated through the   and Chief Data Officer Councils, as well as other interagency bodies, as appropriate, to improve interagency coordination and information sharing for common use cases.

(e) Within   of the completion of their inventories, agencies shall make their inventories available to the public, to the extent practicable and in accordance with applicable law and policy, including those concerning the protection of privacy and of sensitive law enforcement, national security, and other protected information.

 . 6

.

Interagency Coordination

. Agencies are expected to participate in interagency bodies for the purpose of advancing the implementation of the Principles and the use of   consistent with this order. Within   of this order, the   shall publish a list of recommended interagency bodies and forums in which agencies may elect to participate, as appropriate and consistent with their respective authorities and missions.

 . 7

.

AI Implementation Expertise

. (a) Within   of the date of this order,   ( ) program, administered by   ( ) in collaboration with other agencies, shall identify priority areas of expertise and establish an   track to attract experts from industry and academia to undertake a period of work at an agency. These   experts will work within agencies to further the design, development, acquisition, and use of  , consistent with this order.

(b) Within   of the date of this order,   (OPM), in coordination with   and relevant agencies, shall create an inventory of   rotational programs and determine how these programs can be used to expand the number of employees with   expertise at the agencies.

(c) Within   of the creation of the inventory of Government rotational programs described in section 7(b) of this order,   shall issue a report with recommendations for how the programs in the inventory can be best used to expand the number of employees with   expertise at the agencies. This report shall be shared with the interagency coordination bodies identified pursuant to section 6 of this order, enabling agencies to better use these programs for the use of  , consistent with this order.

 . 8

.

Responsible Agencies and Officials

. (a) For purposes of this order, the term "agency" refers to all agencies described in section  , subsection (1), of title  , United States Code, except for the agencies described in section  , subsection (5), of title  .

(b) This order applies to agencies that have use cases for   that fall within the scope defined in section 9 of this order, and excludes   and those agencies and agency components with functions that lie wholly within  . The term "Intelligence Community" has the meaning given the term in section 3003 of title  , United States Code.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, each agency shall specify the responsible official(s) at that agency who will coordinate implementation of the Principles set forth in section 3 of this order with   and other relevant officials and will collaborate with the interagency coordination bodies identified pursuant to section 6 of this order.

 . 9

.

Scope of Application

. (a) This order uses the definition of   set forth in section 238(g) of   for   as a reference point. As   use of   matures and evolves, OMB guidance developed or revised pursuant to section 4 of this order shall include such definitions as are necessary to ensure the application of the Principles in this order to appropriate use cases.

(b) Except for the exclusions set forth in section 9(d) of this order, or provided for by applicable law, the   and implementation guidance in this order shall apply to   designed, developed, acquired, or used specifically to advance the execution of agencies' missions, enhance decision making, or provide the public with a specified benefit.

(c) This order applies to both existing and new uses of  ; both stand-alone   and   embedded within other systems or applications;   developed both by the agency or by third parties on behalf of agencies for the fulfilment of specific agency missions, including relevant data inputs used to train   and outputs used in support of decision making; and agencies' procurement of   applications.

(d) This order does not apply to:

(i) AI used in defense or national security systems (as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3552(b)(6) or as determined by the agency), in whole or in part, although agencies shall adhere to other applicable guidelines and principles for defense and national security purposes, such as those adopted by   and  ;

(ii) AI embedded within common commercial products, such as word processors or map navigation systems, while noting that Government use of such products must nevertheless comply with applicable law and policy to assure the protection of safety, security, privacy, civil rights, civil liberties, and   values; and

(iii) AI research and development (R&D) activities, although the Principles and OMB implementation guidance should inform any R&D directed at potential future applications of   in  .

 . 10

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in the <i>Federal Register</i> on  .
