Executive Order  —Enforcing the Regulatory Reform Agenda
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to lower regulatory burdens on the   people by implementing and enforcing regulatory reform, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to alleviate unnecessary regulatory burdens placed on the   people.

 . 2

.

Regulatory Reform Officers

. (a) Within   of this order, the head of each agency, except the heads of agencies receiving waivers under section 5 of this order, shall designate an agency official as its Regulatory Reform Officer ( ). Each RRO shall oversee the implementation of regulatory reform initiatives and policies to ensure that agencies effectively carry out regulatory reforms, consistent with applicable law. These initiatives and policies include:

(i) Executive Order   of   (  and Controlling Regulatory Costs), regarding offsetting the number and cost of new regulations;

(ii) Executive Order   ( ), as amended, regarding regulatory planning and review;

(iii) section 6 of Executive Order   ( ), regarding retrospective review; and

(iv) the termination, consistent with applicable law, of programs and activities that derive from or implement  , guidance documents, policy memoranda, rule interpretations, and similar documents, or relevant portions thereof, that have been rescinded.

(b) Each agency   periodically report to the agency head and regularly consult with agency leadership.

 . 3

.

Regulatory Reform Task Forces

. (a) Each agency shall establish   composed of:

(i) the agency  ;

(ii) the agency Regulatory Policy Officer designated under section 6(a)(2) of Executive Order  ;

(iii) a representative from the agency's central policy office or equivalent central office; and

(iv) for agencies listed in section 901(b)(1) of title  , United States Code, at least three additional senior agency officials as determined by the agency head.

(b) Unless otherwise designated by the agency head, the agency RRO shall chair the agency's  .

(c) Each entity staffed by officials of multiple agencies, such as the Chief Acquisition Officers Council, shall form a joint   composed of at least one official described in subsection (a) of this section from each constituent agency's  .   shall implement this order in coordination with   of their members' respective agencies.

(d)   shall evaluate existing regulations (as defined in section 4 of Executive Order  ) and make recommendations to the agency head regarding their repeal, replacement, or modification, consistent with applicable law. At a minimum,   shall attempt to identify regulations that:

(i) eliminate jobs, or inhibit job creation;

(ii) are outdated, unnecessary, or ineffective;

(iii) impose costs that exceed benefits;

(iv) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with regulatory reform initiatives and policies;

(v) are inconsistent with the requirements of section 515 of the   and  ,   (44 U.S.C. 3516 note), or the guidance issued pursuant to that provision, in particular those regulations that rely in whole or in part on data, information, or methods that are not publicly available or that are insufficiently transparent to meet the standard for reproducibility; or

(vi) derive from or implement   or other Presidential directives that have been subsequently rescinded or substantially modified.

(e) In performing the evaluation described in subsection (d) of this section,   shall seek input and other assistance, as permitted by law, from entities significantly affected by Federal regulations, including  , local, and tribal governments, small businesses, consumers, non-governmental organizations, and trade associations.

(f) When implementing the regulatory offsets required by Executive Order  , each agency head should prioritize, to the extent permitted by law, those regulations that the agency's   has identified as being outdated, unnecessary, or ineffective pursuant to subsection (d)(ii) of this section.

(g) Within   of the date of this order, and on a schedule determined by the agency head thereafter,   shall provide a report to the agency head detailing the agency's progress toward the following goals:

(i) improving implementation of regulatory reform initiatives and policies pursuant to section 2 of this order; and

(ii) identifying regulations for repeal, replacement, or modification.

 . 4

.

Accountability

. Consistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, each agency should measure its progress in performing the tasks outlined in section 3 of this order.

(a) Agencies listed in section 901(b)(1) of title  , United States Code, shall incorporate in their   performance plans (required under the Government Performance and Results Act, as amended (see 31 U.S.C. 1115(b))), performance indicators that measure progress toward the two goals listed in section 3(g) of this order. Within   of this order, the Director of   (Director) shall issue guidance regarding the implementation of this subsection. Such guidance may also address how agencies not otherwise covered under this subsection should be held accountable for compliance with this order.

(b) The head of each agency shall consider the progress toward the two goals listed in section 3(g) of this order in assessing the performance of   and, to the extent permitted by law, those individuals responsible for developing and issuing agency regulations.

 . 5

.

Waiver

. Upon the request of an agency head, the Director may waive compliance with this order if the Director determines that the agency generally issues very few or no regulations (as defined in section 4 of Executive Order  ). The Director may revoke a waiver at any time. The Director shall publish, at least once  , a list of agencies with current waivers.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
