Executive Order  —  Initiative To Promote Excellence and Innovation at Historically Black Colleges and Universities
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to advance opportunities in higher education, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) have made, and continue to make, extraordinary contributions to the general welfare and prosperity of our country. Established by visionary leaders,  's HBCUs have, for  , produced many of our  's leaders in business, government, academia, and the military, and have helped create a black middle class. The  's more than 100 HBCUs are located in 20  ,  , and the   Virgin Islands, and serve more than 300,000 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. These institutions are important engines of economic growth and public service, and they are proven ladders of intergenerational advancement.

A   Initiative on HBCUs would: advance  's full human potential; foster more and better opportunities in higher education; strengthen the capacity of HBCUs to provide the highest-quality education; provide equitable opportunities for HBCUs to participate in Federal programs; and increase the number of college-educated   who feel empowered and able to advance the common good at home and abroad.

 . 2

.

White House Initiative on HBCUs

.

(a)

Establishment

. There is established   Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities (Initiative), housed in   of the President and led by an   Director designated by the President.

(b)

Mission and Functions

. The Initiative shall work with agencies, private-sector employers, educational associations, philanthropic organizations, and other partners to increase the capacity of HBCUs to provide the highest-quality education to an increasing number of students. The Initiative shall have two primary missions:

(i) increasing the private-sector role, including the role of private foundations, in:

(A) strengthening HBCUs through enhanced institutional planning and development, fiscal stability, and financial management; and

(B) upgrading institutional infrastructure, including the use of technology, to ensure the long-term viability of these institutions; and

(ii) enhancing HBCUs' capabilities to serve our  's young adults by:

(A) strengthening HBCUs' ability to equitably participate in Federal programs and exploring new ways of improving the relationship between   and HBCUs;

(B) fostering private-sector initiatives and public-private partnerships while promoting specific areas and centers of academic research and program-based excellence throughout HBCUs; (C) improving the availability, dissemination, and quality of information concerning HBCUs in the public policy sphere;

(D) sharing administrative and programmatic best practices within the   community;

(E) partnering with elementary and secondary education stakeholders to build a "cradle-to-college" pipeline; and

(F) convening an     on HBCUs to address, among other topics, matters related to the  's missions and functions.

(c)

Federal Agency Plans

.

(i) The Secretary of   (Secretary), in consultation with the Executive Director, shall identify those agencies that regularly interact with HBCUs.

(ii) Each agency identified by the Secretary under subsection (c)(i) of this section shall prepare an   plan (Agency Plan) describing its efforts to strengthen the capacity of HBCUs to participate in applicable Federal programs and initiatives. Where appropriate, each Agency Plan shall address, among other things, the agency's proposed efforts to:

(A) establish how the agency intends to increase the capacity of HBCUs to compete effectively for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements;

(B) identify Federal programs and initiatives where HBCUs are not well represented, and improve HBCUs' participation in those programs and initiatives; and

(C) encourage public-sector, private-sector, and community involvement in improving the overall capacity of HBCUs.

(iii) The head of each agency identified in subsection (c)(i) of this section shall submit its   to the Secretary and the Executive Director   after being so identified, and submit an updated     thereafter.

(iv) To help fulfill the objectives of the   Plans, the head of each agency identified by the Secretary may provide, as appropriate, technical assistance and information to the Executive Director to enhance communication with HBCUs concerning the agency's program activities and the preparation of applications or proposals for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements.

(v) Each agency identified by the Secretary shall appoint a senior official to report directly to the agency head on that agency's progress under this order, and to serve as liaison to the  .

(d)

Interagency  

. There is established  , which shall be chaired by the Executive Director and shall consist of one representative from each agency identified by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (c)(i) of this section, to help advance and coordinate the work required by this order.

 . 3

.

President's  .

(a)

Establishment

. There is established in   the President's   Historically Black Colleges and  ). The   shall consist of not more than 25 members appointed by the President. The   shall include the Secretary, the Executive Director, representatives of a variety of sectors—such as philanthropy, education, business, finance, entrepreneurship, innovation, and private foundations—and sitting   presidents. The President shall designate one member of the   to serve as its  , who shall help direct the  's work in coordination with the Secretary and in consultation with the Executive Director. The   shall also consult with the Executive Director regarding the time and location of the  's meetings, which shall take place at least once  .

(b)

Mission and Functions

. The   shall advise the President, through the  , on all matters pertaining to strengthening the educational capacity of HBCUs. In particular, the   shall advise the President in the following areas:

(i) improving the identity, visibility, distinctive capabilities, and overall competitiveness of HBCUs;

(ii) engaging the philanthropic, business, government, military, homeland-security, and education communities in a national dialogue regarding new   programs and initiatives;

(iii) improving the ability of HBCUs to remain fiscally secure institutions that can assist the   in achieving its educational goals and in advancing the interests of all  ;

(iv) elevating the public awareness of, and fostering appreciation of, HBCUs; and

(v) encouraging public-private investments in HBCUs.

(c)

Administration

.   shall provide funding and administrative support for the  , consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law. Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except for those of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the  , in accordance with guidelines issued by  .

(d)

Report

. The Board shall report   to the President on the  's progress in carrying out its duties under this section.

 . 4

.

Revocation of Executive Order

. Executive Order 13532 of   (Promoting Excellence, Innovation, and Sustainability at Historically Black Colleges and Universities), as amended, is revoked.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) For the purposes of this order, "historically black colleges and universities" shall mean those institutions listed in 34   608.2.

(b) This order shall apply to executive departments and agencies designated by the Secretary. Those departments and agencies shall provide timely reports and such information as is required to effectively carry out the objectives of this order.

(c) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Board. Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expenses of participating in the  . (d) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(e) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(f) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
