Executive Order  —Preventing Violence Against Federal, State,  , and Local Law Enforcement Officers
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It shall be the policy of the executive branch to:

(a) enforce all Federal laws in order to enhance the protection and safety of  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers, and thereby all  ;

(b) develop strategies, in a process led by  ) and within the boundaries of the Constitution and existing Federal laws, to further enhance the protection and safety of  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers; and

(c) pursue appropriate legislation, consistent with the Constitution's regime of limited and enumerated Federal powers, that will define new Federal crimes, and increase penalties for existing Federal crimes, in order to prevent violence against  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers.

 . 2

.

Implementation

. In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Attorney General shall:

(a) develop a strategy for the  's use of existing Federal laws to prosecute individuals who commit or attempt to commit crimes of violence against  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers;

(b) coordinate with  , tribal, and local governments, and with law enforcement agencies at all levels, including other Federal agencies, in prosecuting crimes of violence against  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers in order to advance adequate multi-jurisdiction prosecution efforts;

(c) review existing Federal laws to determine whether those laws are adequate to address the protection and safety of  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers;

(d) following that review, and in coordination with other Federal agencies, as appropriate, make recommendations to the President for legislation to address the protection and safety of  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers, including, if warranted, legislation defining new crimes of violence and establishing new mandatory minimum sentences for existing crimes of violence against  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers, as well as for related crimes;

(e) coordinate with other Federal agencies to develop an executive branch strategy to prevent violence against  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers;

(f) thoroughly evaluate all grant funding programs currently administered by the   to determine the extent to which its grant funding supports and protects  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers; and

(g) recommend to the President any changes to grant funding, based on the evaluation required by subsection (f) of this section, including recommendations for legislation, as appropriate, to adequately support and protect  , tribal, and local law enforcement officers.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
