Executive Order 13971—Addressing the Threat Posed by Applications and Other Software Developed or   by   Companies
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that additional steps must be taken to deal with the national emergency with respect to the information and communications technology and services supply chain declared in Executive Order   of   ( ). Specifically, the pace and pervasiveness of the spread in   of certain connected mobile and desktop applications and other software developed or controlled by persons in  , to include   and   ( ), continue to threaten the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  . At this time, action must be taken to address the threat posed by these   connected software applications.

By accessing personal electronic devices such as smartphones, tablets, and computers,   connected software applications can access and capture vast swaths of information from users, including sensitive personally identifiable information and private information. This data collection threatens to provide   ( ) and   ( ) with access to  ' personal and proprietary information—which would permit   to track the locations of Federal employees and contractors, and build dossiers of personal information.

The continuing activity of the   and the   to steal or otherwise obtain   persons' data makes clear that there is an intent to use bulk data collection to advance  's economic and national security agenda. For example, the   cyber intrusions of   of security clearance records of more than 21 million people were orchestrated by   agents. In  , a   hacking group breached   health insurance company  , affecting more than 78 million  . And   indicted members of the   military for the   Equifax cyber intrusion that compromised the personal information of almost half of all  .

In light of these risks, many executive departments and agencies (agencies) have prohibited the use of   connected software applications and other dangerous software on   computers and mobile phones. These prohibitions, however, are not enough given the nature of the threat from   connected software applications. In fact,   has banned the use of more than 200   connected software applications throughout the country; in a statement,  's   asserted that the applications were "stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users' data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside  ."

  has assessed that a number of   connected software applications automatically capture vast swaths of information from millions of users in  , including sensitive personally identifiable information and private information, which would allow the   and   access to  ' personal and proprietary information.   must take aggressive action against those who develop or control   connected software applications to protect our national security.

Accordingly, I hereby order:

Section 1

. (a) The following actions shall be prohibited beginning   after the date of this order, to the extent permitted under applicable law: any transaction by any person, or with respect to any property, subject to the jurisdiction of  , with persons that develop or control the following   connected software applications, or with their subsidiaries, as those transactions and persons are identified by the Secretary of   (Secretary) under subsection (e) of this section: Alipay,  , QQ Wallet, SHAREit, Tencent QQ,  , WeChat Pay, and  .

(b) The Secretary is directed to continue to evaluate   connected software applications that may pose an unacceptable risk to the national security, foreign policy, or economy of  , and to take appropriate action in accordance with Executive Order  .

(c) Not   after the date of this order, the Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Director of  , shall provide a report to the Assistant to the President for   with recommendations to prevent the sale or transfer of   user data to, or access of such data by, foreign adversaries, including through the establishment of regulations and policies to identify, control, and license the export of such data.

(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

(e) Not   after the date of this order, the Secretary shall identify the transactions and persons that develop or control the   connected software applications subject to subsection (a) of this section.

 . 2

. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate the prohibition set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "connected software application" means software, a software program, or group of software programs, designed to be used by an end user on an end-point computing device and designed to collect, process, or transmit data via the Internet as an integral part of its functionality.

(b) the term "entity" means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization, including an international organization;

(c) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(d) the term "personally identifiable information" ( ) is information that, when used alone or with other relevant data, can identify an individual.   may contain direct identifiers (e.g., passport information) that can identify a person uniquely, or quasi-identifiers (e.g., race) that can be combined with other quasi-identifiers (e.g., date of birth) to successfully recognize an individual.

(e) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 4

. (a) The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the   and the Attorney General, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by  , as may be necessary to implement this order. All agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

(b) The heads of agencies shall provide, in their discretion and to the extent permitted by law, such resources, information, and assistance to   as required to implement this order, including the assignment of staff to   to perform the duties described in this order.

 . 5

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
