Executive Order  —  With  
 ,  
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq.

) ( ), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that the situation with respect to   (ICC) and its illegitimate assertions of jurisdiction over personnel of   and certain of its allies, including   investigation into actions allegedly committed by   military, intelligence, and other personnel in or relating to  , threatens to subject current and former   and allied officials to harassment, abuse, and possible arrest. These actions on the part of the  , in turn, threaten to infringe upon the sovereignty of   and impede the critical national security and foreign policy work of   and allied officials, and thereby threaten the national security and foreign policy of  .   is not a party to  , has never accepted ICC jurisdiction over its personnel, and has consistently rejected ICC assertions of jurisdiction over   personnel. Furthermore, in  ,   enacted   (22 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) which rejected the  's overbroad, non-consensual assertions of jurisdiction.   remains committed to accountability and to the peaceful cultivation of international order, but the   and parties to   must respect the decisions of   and other countries not to subject their personnel to the  's jurisdiction, consistent with their respective sovereign prerogatives.   seeks to impose tangible and significant consequences on those responsible for the  's transgressions, which may include the suspension of entry into   officials, employees, and agents, as well as their immediate family members. The entry of such aliens into   would be detrimental to the interests of   and denying them entry will further demonstrate the resolve of   in opposing the  's overreach by seeking to exercise jurisdiction over personnel of   and our allies, as well as personnel of countries that are not parties to   or have not otherwise consented to ICC jurisdiction.

I therefore determine that any attempt by the   to investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute any   personnel without the consent of  , or of personnel of countries that are   allies and who are not parties to   or have not otherwise consented to ICC jurisdiction, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  , and I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I hereby determine and order:

Section 1

. (a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the   and the Attorney General: (A) to have directly engaged in any effort by the   to investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute any   personnel without the consent of  ;

(B) to have directly engaged in any effort by the   to investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute any personnel of a country that is an ally of   without the consent of that country's government;

(C) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in subsection (a)(i)(A) or (a)(i)(B) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(D) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 2

. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1(a) of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1(a) of this order.

 . 3

. The prohibitions in section 1(a) of this order include:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1(a) of this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 4

. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1(a) of this order, as well as immediate family members of such aliens, or aliens determined by the Secretary of   to be employed by, or acting as an agent of, the  , would be detrimental to the interests of  , and the entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of   determines that the entry of the person into   would not be contrary to the interests of  , including when the Secretary so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important   law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of   shall consult the Secretary of   on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of  . Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of   shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary has established or may establish pursuant to  .

 . 5

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited. (b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 6

. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

 . 7

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization, including an international organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d) the term "  personnel" means any current or former members of  , any current or former elected or appointed official of  , and any other person currently or formerly employed by or working on behalf of  ;

(e) the term "personnel of a country that is an ally of  " means any current or former military personnel, current or former elected or appointed official, or other person currently or formerly employed by or working on behalf of a government of   ( ) member country or a "major   ally", as that term is defined by section 2013(7) of   (22 U.S.C. 7432(7)); and

(f) the term "immediate family member" means spouses and children.

 . 8

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to section 1 of this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 9

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 10

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 11

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
