Executive Order  —  in  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and to promote affordable education and rewarding jobs for   workers, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

.  's education systems and workforce development programs are in need of reform. In  's rapidly changing economy, it is more important than ever to prepare workers to fill both existing and newly created jobs and to prepare workers for the jobs of the future. Higher education, however, is becoming increasingly unaffordable. Furthermore, many colleges and universities fail to help students graduate with the skills necessary to secure high-paying jobs in  's workforce. Far too many individuals   find themselves with crushing student debt and no direct connection to jobs.

Against this background, federally funded education and workforce development programs are not effectively serving   workers. Despite the billions of taxpayer dollars invested in these programs  , many   are struggling to find full-time work. These Federal programs must do a better job matching unemployed   workers with open jobs, including the 350,000 manufacturing jobs currently available.

Expanding apprenticeships and reforming ineffective education and workforce development programs will help address these issues, enabling more   to obtain relevant skills and high-paying jobs. Apprenticeships provide paid, relevant workplace experiences and opportunities to develop skills that employers value. Additionally, they provide affordable paths to good jobs and, ultimately, careers.

Finally, federally funded education and workforce development programs that do not work must be improved or eliminated so that taxpayer dollars can be channeled to more effective uses.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It shall be the policy of   to provide more affordable pathways to secure, high-paying jobs by promoting apprenticeships and effective workforce development programs, while easing the regulatory burden on such programs and reducing or eliminating taxpayer support for ineffective workforce development programs.

 . 3

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) the term "apprenticeship" means an arrangement that includes a paid-work component and an educational or instructional component, wherein an individual obtains workplace-relevant knowledge and skills; and

(b) the term "job training programs" means Federal programs designed to promote skills development or workplace readiness and increase the earnings or employability of workers, but does not include Federal student aid or student loan programs.

 . 4

.

Establishing Industry-Recognized Apprenticeships

. (a) The Secretary of   (Secretary), in consultation with   and  , shall consider proposing regulations, consistent with applicable law, including 29 U.S.C.  , that promote the development of apprenticeship programs by third parties. These third parties may include trade and industry groups, companies, non-profit organizations, unions, and joint labor-management organizations. To the extent permitted by law and supported by sound policy, any such proposed regulations shall reflect an assessment of whether to:

(i) determine how qualified third parties may provide recognition to high-quality apprenticeship programs (industry-recognized apprenticeship programs);

(ii) establish guidelines or requirements that qualified third parties should or must follow to ensure that apprenticeship programs they recognize meet quality standards;

(iii) provide that any industry-recognized apprenticeship program may be considered for expedited and streamlined registration under the registered apprenticeship program   administers;

(iv) retain the existing processes for registering apprenticeship programs for employers who continue using this system; and

(v) establish review processes, consistent with applicable law, for considering whether to:

(A) deny the expedited and streamlined registration under   registered apprenticeship program, referred to in subsection (a)(iii) of this section, in any sector in which   registered apprenticeship programs are already effective and substantially widespread; and

(B) terminate the registration of an industry-recognized apprenticeship program recognized by a qualified third party, as appropriate.

(b) The Secretary shall consider and evaluate public comments on any regulations proposed under subsection (a) of this section before issuing any final regulations.

 . 5

.

Funding to Promote Apprenticeships

. Subject to available appropriations and consistent with applicable law, including 29 U.S.C.  , the Secretary shall use available funding to promote apprenticeships, focusing in particular on expanding access to and participation in apprenticeships among students at accredited secondary and post-secondary educational institutions, including community colleges; expanding the number of apprenticeships in sectors that do not currently have sufficient apprenticeship opportunities; and expanding youth participation in apprenticeships.

 . 6

.

 .  , and  , and the Attorney General, shall, in consultation with each other and consistent with applicable law, promote apprenticeships and pre-apprenticeships for  's high school students and   participants, for persons currently or formerly incarcerated, for persons not currently attending high school or an accredited post-secondary educational institution, and for members of  's armed services and veterans.   and   shall promote apprenticeships to business leaders across critical industry sectors, including manufacturing, infrastructure, cybersecurity, and health care.

 . 7

.

Promoting Apprenticeship Programs at Colleges and Universities

. The Secretary of   shall, consistent with applicable law, support the efforts of community colleges and   and   institutions of higher education to incorporate apprenticeship programs into their courses of study.

 . 8

.

Establishment of  

. (a) The Secretary shall establish in  . (b) The mission of the Task Force shall be to identify strategies and proposals to promote apprenticeships, especially in sectors where apprenticeship programs are insufficient. The Task Force shall submit to the President a report on these strategies and proposals, including:

(i) Federal initiatives to promote apprenticeships;

(ii) administrative and legislative reforms that would facilitate the formation and success of apprenticeship programs;

(iii) the most effective strategies for creating industry-recognized apprenticeships; and

(iv) the most effective strategies for amplifying and encouraging private-sector initiatives to promote apprenticeships.

(c)   shall provide administrative support and funding for  , to the extent permitted by law and subject to availability of appropriations.

(d) The Secretary shall serve as  . The Secretaries of Education and   shall serve as Vice-Chairs of  . The Secretary shall appoint the other members of  , which shall consist of no more than twenty individuals who work for or represent the perspectives of   companies, trade or industry groups, educational institutions, and labor unions, and such other persons as the Secretary may from time to time designate.

(e) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to  , any functions of the President under that Act, except for those of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the  , in accordance with guidelines issued by  .

(f) Members of the Task Force shall serve without additional compensation for their work on  , but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

(g) A member of   may designate a senior member of his or her organization to attend any Task Force meeting.

(h) The Task Force shall terminate   after it submits its report to the President.

 . 9

.

Excellence in Apprenticeships

. Not   after the date of this order, the Secretary shall, consistent with applicable law, and in consultation with   and  , establish an   to solicit voluntary information for purposes of recognizing, by means of a commendation, efforts by employers, trade or industry associations, unions, or joint labor-management organizations to implement apprenticeship programs.

 . 10

.

Improving the Effectiveness of Workforce Development Programs

. (a) Concurrent with its budget submission to the Director of   (OMB), the head of each agency shall submit a list of programs, if any, administered by their agency that are designed to promote skills development and workplace readiness. For such programs, agencies shall provide information on:

(i) evaluations of any relevant data pertaining to their effectiveness (including their employment outcomes);

(ii) recommendations for administrative and legislative reforms that would improve their outcomes and effectiveness for   workers and employers; and

(iii) recommendations to eliminate those programs that are ineffective, redundant, or unnecessary.

(b) The Director of OMB shall consider the information provided by agencies in subsection (a) of this section in developing the President's   Budget.

(c) The head of each agency administering one or more job training programs shall order, subject to available appropriations and consistent with applicable law, an empirically rigorous evaluation of the effectiveness of such programs, unless such an analysis has been recently conducted. When feasible, these evaluations shall be conducted by third-party evaluators using the most rigorous methods appropriate and feasible for the program, with preference given to multi-site randomized controlled trials.

(d) The Director of OMB shall provide guidance to agencies on how to fulfill their obligations under this section.

 . 11

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
