Executive Order  —   , and  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. The first duty of government is to ensure domestic tranquility and defend the life, property, and rights of its citizens. Over  , there has been a sustained assault on the life and property of civilians, law enforcement officers, government property, and revered   monuments such as  . Many of the rioters, arsonists, and left-wing extremists who have carried out and supported these acts have explicitly identified themselves with ideologies—such as Marxism—that call for the destruction of   system of government.

Anarchists and left-wing extremists have sought to advance a fringe ideology that paints   as fundamentally unjust and have sought to impose that ideology on   through violence and mob intimidation. They have led riots in the streets, burned police vehicles, killed and assaulted government officers as well as business owners defending their property, and even seized an area within one city where law and order gave way to anarchy. During the unrest, innocent citizens also have been harmed and killed.

These criminal acts are frequently planned and supported by agitators who have traveled across   lines to promote their own violent agenda. These radicals shamelessly attack the legitimacy of our institutions and the very rule of law itself.

Key targets in the violent extremists' campaign against our country are public monuments, memorials, and statues. Their selection of targets reveals a deep ignorance of our history, and is indicative of a desire to indiscriminately destroy anything that honors our past and to erase from the public mind any suggestion that our past may be worth honoring, cherishing, remembering, or understanding. In  , vandals toppled a statue of President   in  . To them, it made no difference that President   led   to victory over the Confederacy in the Civil War, enforced  , fought  , and advocated for the Fifteenth Amendment, which guaranteed freed slaves the right to vote. In  ,  , the names of 507 veterans memorialized on a World War II monument were painted over with a symbol of communism. And  , in  , a memorial commemorating an   regiment that fought in the Civil War was defaced with graffiti. In  ,  , rioters knocked over the statue of an abolitionist immigrant who fought for the Union during the Civil War.   figures are now in the crosshairs, too. Recently, an influential activist for one movement that has been prominent in setting the agenda for demonstrations in   declared that many existing religious depictions of   and the Holy Family should be purged from our places of worship.

Individuals and organizations have the right to peacefully advocate for either the removal or the construction of any monument. But no individual or group has the right to damage, deface, or remove any monument by use of force.

In the midst of these attacks, many   and local governments appear to have lost the ability to distinguish between the lawful exercise of rights to free speech and assembly and unvarnished vandalism. They have surrendered to mob rule, imperiling community safety, allowing for the wholesale violation of our laws, and privileging the violent impulses of the mob over the rights of law-abiding citizens. Worse, they apparently have lost the will or the desire to stand up to the radical fringe and defend the fundamental truth that   is good, her people are virtuous, and that justice prevails in this country to a far greater extent than anywhere else in the world. Some particularly misguided public officials even appear to have accepted the idea that violence can be virtuous and have prevented their police from enforcing the law and protecting public monuments, memorials, and statues from the mob's ropes and graffiti.

My Administration will not allow violent mobs incited by a radical fringe to become the arbiters of the aspects of our history that can be celebrated in public spaces. State and local public officials' abdication of their law enforcement responsibilities in deference to this violent assault must end.

 . 2

.

Policy

. (a) It is the policy of   to prosecute to the fullest extent permitted under Federal law, and as appropriate, any person or any entity that destroys, damages, vandalizes, or desecrates a monument, memorial, or statue within   or otherwise vandalizes government property. The desire of the   to protect Federal property is clearly reflected in section   of title 18, United States Code, which authorizes a penalty of   imprisonment for the willful injury of Federal property. More recently, under the  '   and Recognition Act of  , section 1369 of title 18, United States Code, the   punished with the same penalties the destruction of   and in some cases  -maintained monuments that honor military veterans. Other criminal statutes, such as the Travel Act, section 1952 of title 18, United States Code, permit prosecutions of arson damaging monuments, memorials, and statues on   grounds in some cases. Civil statutes like  , section 100722 of title  , United States Code, also hold those who destroy certain Federal property accountable for their offenses.   will not tolerate violations of these and other laws.

(b) It is the policy of   to prosecute to the fullest extent permitted under Federal law, and as appropriate, any person or any entity that participates in efforts to incite violence or other illegal activity in connection with the riots and acts of vandalism described in section 1 of this order. Numerous Federal laws, including section   of title 18, United States Code, prohibit the violence that has typified   in some cities. Other statutes punish those who participate in or assist the agitators who have coordinated these lawless acts. Such laws include section 371 of title 18, United States Code, which criminalizes certain conspiracies to violate Federal law, section 2 of title 18, United States Code, which punishes those who aid or abet the commission of Federal crimes, and section 2339A of title 18, United States Code, which prohibits as material support to terrorism efforts to support a defined set of Federal crimes. Those who have joined in recent violent acts around   will be held accountable.

(c) It is the policy of   to prosecute to the fullest extent permitted under Federal law, and as appropriate, any person or any entity that damages, defaces, or destroys religious property, including by attacking, removing, or defacing depictions of   or other religious figures or religious art work. Federal laws prohibit, under certain circumstances, damage or defacement of religious property, including   of  , section 247 of title 18, United States Code, and section 371 of title 18, United States Code.   will not tolerate violations of these laws designed to protect the free exercise of religion.

(d) It is the policy of  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to withhold Federal support tied to public spaces from   and local governments that have failed to protect public monuments, memorials, and statues from destruction or vandalism. These jurisdictions' recent abandonment of their law enforcement responsibilities with respect to public monuments, memorials, and statues casts doubt on their willingness to protect other public spaces and maintain the peace within them. These jurisdictions are not appropriate candidates for limited Federal funds that support public spaces.

(e) It is the policy of  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to withhold Federal support from   and local law enforcement agencies that have failed to protect public monuments, memorials, and statues from destruction or vandalism. Unwillingness to enforce   and local laws in the face of attacks on our history, whether because of sympathy for the extremists behind this violence or some other improper reason, casts doubt on the management of these law enforcement agencies. These law enforcement agencies are not appropriate candidates for limited Federal funds that support   and local police.

 . 3

.

Enforcing Laws Prohibiting the Desecration of Public Monuments,  , and Recent Acts of Violence

. (a) The Attorney General shall prioritize within   the investigation and prosecution of matters described in subsections 2(a), (b), and (c) of this order. The Attorney General shall take all appropriate enforcement action against individuals and organizations found to have violated Federal law through these investigations.

(b) The Attorney General shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, work with   and local law enforcement authorities and Federal agencies to ensure   appropriately provides information and assistance to   and local law enforcement authorities in connection with their investigations or prosecutions for the desecration of monuments, memorials, and statues, regardless of whether such structures are situated on Federal property.

 . 4

.

Limiting Federal Grants for Jurisdictions and Law Enforcement Agencies that  , or Statues

. The heads of all executive departments and agencies shall examine their respective grant programs and apply the policies established by sections 2(d) and (e) of this order to all such programs to the extent that such application is both appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 5

.

Providing Assistance for  , and Property

. Upon the request of the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , or  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of   shall provide, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, personnel to assist with the protection of Federal monuments, memorials, statues, or property. This section shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended by the President.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. (d) This order is not intended to, and does not, affect the prosecutorial discretion of   with respect to individual cases.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
