Executive Order  —Advancing International Religious Freedom
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy.

(a) Religious freedom,  's first freedom, is a moral and national security imperative. Religious freedom for all people worldwide is a foreign policy priority of  , and   will respect and vigorously promote this freedom. As stated in the   National Security Strategy, our   understood religious freedom not as a creation of the state, but as a gift of God to every person and a right that is fundamental for the flourishing of our society.

(b) Religious communities and organizations, and other institutions of civil society, are vital partners in   efforts to advance religious freedom around the world. It is the policy of   to engage robustly and continually with civil society organizations—including those in foreign countries—to inform   policies, programs, and activities related to international religious freedom.

 . 2. Prioritization of International Religious Freedom.

Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   (Secretary) shall, in consultation with  ), develop a plan to prioritize international religious freedom in the planning and implementation of   foreign policy and in the foreign assistance programs of   and  .

 . 3. Foreign Assistance Funding for International Religious Freedom.

(a) The Secretary shall, in consultation with  , budget at least $50 million per   for programs that advance international religious freedom, to the extent feasible and permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations. Such programs shall include those intended to anticipate, prevent, and respond to attacks against individuals and groups on the basis of their religion, including programs designed to help ensure that such groups can persevere as distinct communities; to promote accountability for the perpetrators of such attacks; to ensure equal rights and legal protections for individuals and groups regardless of belief; to improve the safety and security of houses of worship and public spaces for all faiths; and to protect and preserve the cultural heritages of religious communities.

(b) Executive departments and agencies (agencies) that fund foreign assistance programs shall ensure that faith-based and religious entities, including eligible entities in foreign countries, are not discriminated against on the basis of religious identity or religious belief when competing for Federal funding, to the extent permitted by law.

 . 4. Integrating International Religious Freedom into United States Diplomacy.

(a) The Secretary shall   in countries of particular concern, countries on  , countries in which there are entities of particular concern, and any other countries that have engaged in or tolerated violations of religious freedom as noted in the Annual Report on International Religious Freedom required by section 102(b) of   of   (Public Law 105-292), as amended (the "Act"), to develop comprehensive action plans to inform and support the efforts of   to advance international religious freedom and to encourage the host governments to make progress in eliminating violations of religious freedom. (b) In meetings with their counterparts in foreign governments, the heads of agencies shall, when appropriate and in coordination with the Secretary, raise concerns about international religious freedom and cases that involve individuals imprisoned because of their religion.

(c) The Secretary shall advocate for   international religious freedom policy in both bilateral and multilateral fora, when appropriate, and shall direct the Administrator of USAID to do the same.

 . 5. Training for Federal Officials.

(a) The Secretary shall require all   civil service employees in   to undertake training modeled on the international religious freedom training described in section 708(a) of the Foreign Service Act of   (Public Law 96-465), as amended by section 103(a)(1) of   (Public Law 114-281).

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the heads of all agencies that assign personnel to positions overseas shall submit plans to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , detailing how their agencies will incorporate the type of training described in subsection (a) of this section into the training required before the start of overseas assignments for all personnel who are to be stationed abroad, or who will deploy and remain abroad, in one location for   or more.

(c) All Federal employees subject to these requirements shall be required to complete international religious freedom training not less frequently than once  .

 . 6. Economic Tools.

(a) The Secretary and the Secretary of the   shall, in consultation with the Assistant to the President for  , and through the process described in   of   ( ,  , and  ), develop recommendations to prioritize the appropriate use of economic tools to advance international religious freedom in countries of particular concern, countries on  , countries in which there are entities of particular concern, and any other countries that have engaged in or tolerated violations of religious freedom as noted in the report required by section 102(b) of the Act. These economic tools may include, as appropriate and to the extent permitted by law, increasing religious freedom programming, realigning foreign assistance to better reflect country circumstances, or restricting the issuance of visas under section 604(a) of the Act.

(b) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , may consider imposing sanctions under Executive Order   of   (Blocking   in Serious Human Rights Abuse or Corruption), which, among other things, implements   Law 114-328).

 . 7. Definitions.

For purposes of this order:

(a) "Country of particular concern" is defined as provided in section 402(b)(1)(A) of the Act;

(b) "Entity of particular concern" is defined as provided in section 301 of   (Public Law 114-281);

(c) "Special Watch List" is defined as provided in sections 3(15) and 402(b)(1)(A)(iii) of the Act; and

(d) "Violations of religious freedom" is defined as provided in section 3(16) of the Act.

 . 8.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
