Executive Order  —Imposing Sanctions With Respect to  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , in light of the actions of   and  -backed proxies, particularly those taken to destabilize the Middle East, promote international terrorism, and advance  's ballistic missile program, and  's irresponsible and provocative actions in and over international waters, including the targeting of   military assets and civilian vessels, hereby order:

Section 1

. (a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) the Supreme Leader of   and   ( ); or

(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  :

(A) to be a person appointed by the Supreme Leader of   or the   to a position as a state official of  , or as the head of any entity located in   or any entity located outside of   that is owned or controlled by one or more entities in  ;

(B) to be a person appointed to a position as a state official of  , or as the head of any entity located in   or any entity located outside of   that is owned or controlled by one or more entities in  , by any person appointed by the Supreme Leader of   or the  ;

(C) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section;

(D) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section; or

(E) to be a member of the board of directors or a senior executive officer of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 2

. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution has knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction for or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order.

(b) With respect to any foreign financial institution determined by the Secretary of the   in accordance with this section to meet the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of the   may prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the maintaining, in   of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by such foreign financial institution.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 3

. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1701(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair the President's ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 4

. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 5

. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and the entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).

 . 6

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order, other than the purposes described in section 5 of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 7

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 8

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "foreign financial institution" means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. The term includes, but is not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2),  ,  , or any other international financial institution so notified by the Secretary of the  ;

(d) the term "knowingly," with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result; and

(e) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 9

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 10

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 11

. The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the   Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  . The Executive order referred to   Leader   of  .
