Executive Order  —  the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Transnational Criminal Organizations
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code;

I,  , President of  , in order to take additional steps to deal with the national emergency with respect to significant transnational criminal organizations declared in Executive Order   (Blocking Property of Transnational Criminal Organizations), in view of the evolution of these organizations as well as the increasing sophistication of their activities, which threaten international political and economic systems and pose a direct threat to the safety and welfare of   and its citizens, and given the ability of these organizations to derive revenue through widespread illegal conduct, including acts of violence and abuse that exhibit a wanton disregard for human life as well as many other crimes enriching and empowering these organizations, hereby order:

Section 1. Subsection (e) of section 3 of Executive Order   is hereby amended to read as follows:

"(e) the term "significant transnational criminal organization" means a group of persons that includes one or more foreign persons; that engages in or facilitates an ongoing pattern of serious criminal activity involving the jurisdictions of at least two foreign states, or one foreign state and  ; and that threatens the national security, foreign policy, or economy of  ."

Sec. 2. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
