Executive Order  —  and Certain Members of   of   
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and in furtherance of Proclamation 9994 of March 13, 2020 (Declaring a National Emergency Concerning the Novel Coronavirus Disease (COVID–19)  ), which declared a national emergency by reason of the threat that the novel (new) coronavirus known as SARS–CoV–2 poses to our  's healthcare systems, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1. Emergency Authority.

To provide additional authority to the Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security to respond to the national emergency declared by  , the authorities under section 12302 of title 10, United States Code, and sections  ,  ,  , and 3735 of title  , United States Code, are invoked and made available, according to their terms, to  . The Secretaries of the  ,  , and  , at the direction of the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   with respect to   when it is not operating as a service in the  , are authorized to order to active duty not to exceed  , such units, and individual members of   under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned, not to exceed 1,000,000 members on active duty at any one time, as the Secretary of   and, with respect to   when it is not operating as a service in the  , the Secretary of   consider necessary. The Secretary of   or the Secretary of  , as applicable, will ensure appropriate consultation is undertaken with relevant state officials with respect to the utilization of   units activated under this authority.

 . 2. General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
