Executive Order  —  to  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I,  , President of  , in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order   and Executive Order  , particularly in light of the recent activities of the   regime, including endemic economic mismanagement and public corruption at the expense of the   people and their prosperity, and ongoing repression of the political opposition; attempts to undermine democratic order by holding snap elections that are neither free nor fair; and the regime's responsibility for the deepening humanitarian and public health crisis in  , hereby order as follows:

Section 1

. (a) All transactions related to, provision of financing for, and other dealings in the following by a   person or within   are prohibited:

(i) the purchase of any debt owed to  , including accounts receivable;

(ii) any debt owed to   that is pledged as collateral after the effective date of this order, including accounts receivable; and

(iii) the sale, transfer, assignment, or pledging as collateral by   of any equity interest in any entity in which   has a 50 percent or greater ownership interest.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order.

 . 2

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) The term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches of such entities), or any person within  ; and

(d) the term "Government of Venezuela" means  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including   and  ,   (PdVSA), and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of,  .

 . 4

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, re-delegate any of these functions to other officers and executive departments and agencies of  . All agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 5

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 6

. This order is effective at 12:30 p.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
