Executive Order  —Establishing the One Trillion Trees Interagency Council
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. As I declared in Executive Order 13855 of   (   , Rangelands, and Other Federal Lands To Improve Conditions and  ), it is the policy of   to promote healthy and resilient forests, rangelands, and other   lands by actively managing them through partnerships with  , tribes, communities, non-profit organizations, and the private sector.

Our Nation is home to hundreds of millions of acres of  , tribal, and private forests and woodlands, which produce tremendous positive economic and environmental effects throughout our country. Recreational and educational visits to   make substantial contributions to our  's physical and emotional health as well as to our gross domestic product, all while supporting thousands of full- and part-time jobs. Our Nation's forests and woodlands provide valuable environmental benefits as well, including by serving as wildlife habitats and supporting air and water quality for all  . Forests and woodlands sequester atmospheric carbon, and according to  , 180 million people in over 68,000 communities rely on our  's forested watersheds to capture and filter their drinking water.

These facts demonstrate how our   has taken advantage of the tremendous economic and environmental benefits associated with tree growth and forestation. By advancing Federal policies conducive to these practices, under my leadership,   has promoted greater use of nature-based solutions to address global challenges.

On  , I announced that to further protect the environment,   would be joining   One Trillion Trees initiative (Initiative), an ambitious global effort to grow and conserve one trillion trees worldwide by  . Following through on my commitment, and given the expansive footprint of our Federal forests and woodlands, this order initiates the formation of   One Trillion Trees Interagency Council to further   contribution to the global effort.

 . 2

.

United States One Trillion Trees Interagency Council

. There is hereby established   One Trillion Trees Interagency Council (Council). The   shall be charged with developing, coordinating, and promoting   interactions with the   with respect to tree growing, restoration, and conservation, and with coordinating with key stakeholders to help advance the  . The   shall remain independent from the  .

The   shall be co-chaired by the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of  , or by their designees ( ). The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Coordination, or their designees, shall serve as Vice Chairs.

(a)

Membership

. In addition to   and Vice Chairs, the   shall consist of the following officials or their designees:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ; (iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x)  ;

(xi) the Director of  ;

(xii) the Senior Advisor to the President;

(xiii) the   to the President and Director of  ;

( ) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(xv) the Chairman of  ;

(xvi) the Director of  ;

(xvii) the Administrator of    ;

(xviii) the Assistant to the President and Director of  ;

(xix) the Assistant Secretary of  ); and

(xx) the heads of such other executive departments and   land management agencies (agencies) and offices as the President,  , or Vice   may, from time to time, designate or invite, as appropriate.

(b)

Administration

.  , in consultation with the Vice Chairs, shall convene meetings of the   and direct its work.   shall keep the   apprised of all Federal efforts related to the subject of this order.   and members of the   shall also coordinate with the Vice Chairs on communications with the   and related parties regarding any   interactions with the  .

 . 3

.

Agency Roles and Responsibilities

. All members of the   who are heads of agencies shall:

(a) include  -related activities within their respective strategic planning processes; and

(b) provide to  , Vice Chairs, and the Director of  , pursuant to the   protocol established under section 4(e) of this order, regular progress reports on their respective agencies' activities, if any, relating to the growth, restoration, and conservation of trees.

 . 4

.

Council Mission and Functions

. The mission of the   shall be to promote an increase in   activities and other national efforts that further the   by growing, restoring, and conserving trees. The   shall:

(a) develop and implement a strategy that includes a methodology that   will use to track and measure any Federal activities related to the  , specifically with respect to trees grown, restored, and conserved; (b) identify statutory, regulatory, and other limitations that inhibit   from taking additional actions in furtherance of the  , and recommend potential administrative and legislative actions to remedy such limitations;

(c) identify opportunities to use existing authorities and existing or future authorized and appropriated funds to promote efforts to protect and restore trees, and to promote the active management of existing Federal lands to facilitate growth, restoration, and conservation of trees;

(d) inform  , local, and tribal officials of Federal efforts to protect, grow, and actively manage forests and woodlands on Federal lands; and

(e) establish a protocol for the submission by members of the   who are heads of agencies of regular progress reports to  , Vice Chairs, and the Director of   on the activities, if any, of these members' respective agencies relating to the growth, restoration, and conservation of trees.

 . 5

.

Termination

. The   shall terminate on  .

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
