Executive Order  —Protecting and   for Our Nation's Seniors
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. The proposed   for All Act of  , as introduced in the   ("Medicare for All") would destroy our current   program, which enables our  's seniors and other vulnerable   to receive affordable, high-quality care from providers of their choice. Rather than upend   as we know it, my Administration will protect and improve it.

 's seniors are overwhelmingly satisfied with their   coverage. The vast majority of seniors believe that the program delivers high-quality health outcomes.   empowers seniors to choose their own providers and the type of health insurance that works best for them, whether it is fee-for-service ( )  , in which   pays for covered services, or   ( ), in which   dollars are used to purchase qualified private health insurance. "  for All" would take away the choices currently available within   and centralize even more power in  , harming seniors and other   beneficiaries. Throughout their lives, workers and their employers have contributed their own money to  . It would be a mistake to eliminate  ' healthcare choices and to force them into a new system that is effectively a   takeover of their healthcare.

"  for All" would not only hurt  's seniors, it would also eliminate health choices for all  . Instead of picking the health insurance that best meets their needs,   would generally be subject to a single, Government-run system. Private insurance for traditional health services, upon which millions of   depend, would be prohibited. States would be hindered from offering the types of insurance that work best for their citizens. The Secretary of   (Secretary) would have the authority to control and approve health expenditures; such a system could create, among other problems, delays for patients in receiving needed care. To pay for this system,   would compel   to pay more in taxes. No one—neither seniors nor any  —would have the same options to choose their health coverage as they do now.

Instead of ending the current   program and eliminating health choices for all  , my Administration will continue to protect and improve   by building on those aspects of the program that work well, including the market-based approaches in the current system. The   component, for example, delivers efficient and value-based care through choice and private competition, and has improved aspects of the   program that previously failed seniors. The   program shall adopt and implement those market-based recommendations developed pursuant to Executive Order   of   (   ), and published in my  's report on "Reforming America's  ." Doing so would help empower patients to select and access the right care, at the right time, in the right place, from the right provider.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to protect and improve the   program by enhancing its fiscal sustainability through alternative payment methodologies that link payment to value, increase choice, and lower regulatory burdens imposed upon providers.

 . 3

.

Providing More Plan Choices to Seniors

. (a) Within   of this order, the Secretary shall propose a regulation and implement other administrative actions to enable the   program to provide beneficiaries with more diverse and affordable plan choices. The proposed actions shall:

(i) encourage innovative   benefit structures and plan designs, including through changes in regulations and guidance that reduce barriers to obtaining   and that promote innovations in supplemental benefits and telehealth services;

(ii) include a payment model that adjusts supplemental   benefits to allow   beneficiaries to share more directly in the savings from the program, including through cash or monetary rebates, thus creating more incentives to seek high-value care; and

(iii) ensure that, to the extent permitted by law,   is not advantaged or promoted over   with respect to its administration.

(b) The Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman of  , shall submit to the President, through the Assistants to the President for Domestic and Economic Policy, a report within   from the date of this order that identifies approaches to modify     payments to more closely reflect the prices paid for services in   and the commercial insurance market, to encourage more robust price competition, and otherwise to inject market pricing into     reimbursement.

 . 4

.

Improving Access Through Network Adequacy

. Within   of this order, the Secretary shall propose a regulation to provide beneficiaries with improved access to providers and plans by adjusting network adequacy requirements for   plans to account for:

(a) the competitiveness of the health market in the   in which such plans operate, including whether those   maintain certificate-of-need laws or other anti-competitive restrictions on health access; and

(b) the enhanced access to health outcomes made possible through telehealth services or other innovative technologies.

 . 5

.

Enabling Providers to Spend More Time with Patients

. Within   of this order, the Secretary shall propose reforms to the   program to enable providers to spend more time with patients by:

(a) proposing a regulation that would eliminate burdensome regulatory billing requirements, conditions of participation, supervision requirements, benefit definitions, and all other licensure requirements of the   program that are more stringent than applicable   laws require and that limit professionals from practicing at the top of their profession;

(b) proposing a regulation that would ensure appropriate reimbursement by   for time spent with patients by both primary and specialist health providers practicing in all types of health professions; and

(c) conducting a comprehensive review of regulatory policies that create disparities in reimbursement between physicians and non-physician practitioners and proposing a regulation that would, to the extent allowed by law, ensure that items and services provided by  , including physicians, physician assistants, and nurse practitioners, are appropriately reimbursed in accordance with the work performed rather than the clinician's occupation.

 . 6

.

Encouraging Innovation for Patients

. Within   of this order, the Secretary shall propose regulatory and sub-regulatory changes to the   program to encourage innovation for patients by:

(a) streamlining the approval, coverage, and coding process so that innovative products are brought to market faster, and so that such products, including breakthrough medical devices and advances in telehealth services and similar technologies, are appropriately reimbursed and widely available, consistent with the principles of patient safety, market-based policies, and value for patients. This process shall include:

(i) adopting regulations and guidance that minimize and eliminate, as appropriate, the time and steps between approval by   ( ) and coverage decisions by   and   ( );

(ii) clarifying the application of coverage standards, including the evidence standards   uses in applying its reasonable-and-necessary standard, the standards for deciding appeals of coverage decisions, and the prioritization and timeline for   process in light of changes made to local coverage determination processes; and

(iii) identifying challenges to the use of parallel   and   review and proposing changes to address those challenges; and

(b) modifying   payment model to remove any disincentives for   plans to cover items and services that make use of new technologies that are not covered by   when those items and services can save money and improve the quality of care.

 . 7

.

Rewarding Care Through Site Neutrality

. The Secretary shall ensure that   payments and policies encourage competition and a diversity of sites for patients to access care.

 . 8

.

Empowering Patients, Caregivers, and  

. (a) Within   of this order, the Secretary shall propose a regulation that would provide seniors with better quality care and cost data, improving their ability to make decisions about their healthcare that work best for them and to hold providers and plans accountable.

(b) Within   of this order, the Secretary shall use   claims data to give health providers additional information regarding practice patterns for services that may pose undue risks to patients, and to inform health providers about practice patterns that are outliers or that are outside recommended standards of care.

 . 9

.

Eliminating Waste,  , and   to   and Taxpayers

. (a) The Secretary shall propose regulatory or sub-regulatory changes to the   program, to take effect by  , and shall propose such changes   thereafter, to combat fraud, waste, and abuse in the   program. The Secretary shall undertake all appropriate efforts to direct public and private resources toward detecting and preventing fraud, waste, and abuse, including through the use of the latest technologies such as artificial intelligence.

(b) The Secretary shall study and, within   of the date of this order, recommend approaches to transition toward true market-based pricing in the   program. The Secretary shall submit the results of this study to the President through the Assistants to the President for Domestic and Economic Policy. Approaches studied shall include:

(i) shared savings and competitive bidding in  ;

(ii) use of  -negotiated rates to set   rates; and

(iii) novel approaches to information development and sharing that may enable markets to lower cost and improve quality for   beneficiaries.

 . 10

.

Reducing Obstacles to Improved Patient Care

. Within   of this order, the Secretary shall propose regulatory changes to the   program to reduce the burden on providers and eliminate regulations that create inefficiencies or otherwise undermine patient outcomes.

 . 11

.

Maximizing Freedom for Medicare Patients and Providers

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary, in coordination with  , shall revise current rules or policies to preserve the   retirement insurance benefits of seniors who choose not to receive benefits under   Part A, and propose other administrative improvements to   enrollment processes for beneficiaries.

(b) Within   of this order, the Secretary shall identify and remove unnecessary barriers to private contracts that allow   beneficiaries to obtain the care of their choice and facilitate the development of market-driven prices.

 . 12

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
