Executive Order  —Authorizing the Implementation of Certain Sanctions Set Forth in   Adversaries Through Sanctions Act
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Public Law 115-44) (CAATSA), the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-272), as amended ( ), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergencies declared in Executive Order   of  , as expanded in scope and relied upon for additional steps taken in subsequent Executive Orders, and Executive Order   of  , as relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order   of  , hereby order:

Section 1

. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to sections 224(a)(2), 231(a), 232(a), or 233(a) of CAATSA and has selected from section 235 of CAATSA any of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the  :

(i) prohibit any   financial institution from making loans or providing credits to the sanctioned person totaling more than $10,000,000 in any   period, unless the person is engaged in activities to relieve human suffering and the loans or credits are provided for such activities;

(ii) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of   and in which the sanctioned person has any interest;

(iii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions, or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of   and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;

(iv) block all property and interests in property of the sanctioned person that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;

(v) prohibit any   person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the sanctioned person; or

(vi) impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(v) of this section, as selected by the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the  .

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a)(iv) of this section include:

(i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any sanctioned person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such sanctioned person.

(c) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 2

. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to sections 224(a)(2), 231(a), 232(a), or 233(a) of CAATSA and has selected from section 235 of CAATSA any of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the heads of relevant departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , as appropriate, shall ensure that the following actions are taken where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the  :

(i) The Export-Import Bank shall deny approval of the issuance of any guarantee, insurance, extension of credit, or participation in an extension of credit in connection with the export of any goods or services to the sanctioned person;

(ii) Departments and agencies shall not issue any specific license or grant any other specific permission or authority under any statute that requires the prior review or approval of   as a condition for the export or reexport of goods or technology to the sanctioned person;

(iii)   executive director of each international financial institution shall use the voice and vote of   to oppose any loan from the international financial institution that would benefit the sanctioned person;

(iv) With respect to a sanctioned person that is a financial institution:   of   and   of   shall not designate, or permit the continuation of any prior designation of, the sanctioned person as a primary dealer in   debt instruments; and departments and agencies shall prevent the sanctioned person from serving as an agent of   or serving as a repository for   funds;

(v) Departments and agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person;

(vi) The Secretary of   shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of   shall exclude from  , any alien that the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the   determines is a corporate officer or principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, the sanctioned person by treating the person as covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions); or

(vii) The heads of the relevant departments and agencies, as appropriate, shall impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(vi) of this section, as selected by the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the  .

(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 3

. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to section 224(a)(3) of CAATSA or sections 4(a) or 4(b) of   and has selected from section 4(c) of UFSA any of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the  :

(i) block all property and interests in property of the sanctioned person that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;

(ii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions, or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of   and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;

(iii) prohibit any   person from transacting in, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in certain debt or equity of the sanctioned person, in accordance with section 4(c)(7) of  ; or

(iv) impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(iii) of this section, as selected by the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the  .

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a)(i) of this section include:

(i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any sanctioned person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such sanctioned person.

(c) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 4

. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to section 224(a)(3) of CAATSA or sections 4(a) or 4(b) of   and has selected from section 4(c) of UFSA any of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the heads of relevant departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , as appropriate, shall ensure that the following actions are taken where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the  :

(i) The Export-Import Bank shall deny approval of the issuance of any guarantee, insurance, extension of credit, or participation in an extension of credit in connection with the export of any goods or services to the sanctioned person;

(ii) Departments and agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person;

(iii) Departments and agencies shall prohibit the exportation, or provision by sale, lease or loan, grant, or other means, directly or indirectly, of any defense article or defense service to the sanctioned person and shall not issue any license or other approval to the sanctioned person under section 38 of   (22 U.S.C.  );

(iv) Departments and agencies shall not issue any license, and shall suspend any license, for the transfer to the sanctioned person of any item the export of which is controlled under   of   (subtitle B of title XVII of Public Law 115-232), or the Export Administration Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations;

(v) The Secretary of   shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of   shall exclude from  , the sanctioned person by treating the person as covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693; or

(vi) The heads of the relevant departments and agencies, as appropriate, shall impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)-(a)(v) of this section, as selected by the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the  .

(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 5

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 6

. I hereby determine that, to the extent section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) may apply, the making of donations of the types of articles specified in such section by, to, or for the benefit of any sanctioned person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergencies declared in Executive Orders   and  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by sections 1(a)(iv) and 3(a)(i) of this order.

 . 7

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person within  ;

(d) the term "financial institution" includes: (i) a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(1) of   (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1))), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of   (12 U.S.C. 3101(7))); (ii) a credit union; (iii) a securities firm, including a broker or dealer; (iv) an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and (v) any other company that provides financial services;

(e) the term "international financial institution" has the meaning given that term in section 1701(c) of   (22 U.S.C. 262r(c));

(f) the term "  financial institution" means a financial institution (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of   or of any jurisdiction within   or located in  ; and

(g) the term "sanctioned person" means a person that the President, or the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined is a person on whom sanctions shall be imposed pursuant to sections 224(a)(2), 224(a)(3), 231(a), 232(a), or 233(a) of CAATSA or sections 4(a) or 4(b) of   and on whom the President, the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of the   has imposed any of the sanctions in section 235 of CAATSA or section 4(c) of  .

 . 8

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken with respect to such property or interests in property pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergencies declared in Executive Orders   and  , there need be no prior notice of an action taken pursuant to this order with respect to such property or interests in property.

 . 9

. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens on whom sanctions described in sections 1(a)(iv) or 3(a)(i) of this order have been imposed would be detrimental to the interests of  , and the entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693.

 . 10

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , and sections 224(a)(2), 224(a)(3), 231(a), 231(e), 232(a), 233(a), and 235 of CAATSA and sections 4(a)-(c) and 4(h) of   with respect to powers to impose sanctions, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 11

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
