Executive Order  —Imposing Certain Sanctions in the Event of Foreign Interference in a United States Election
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that the ability of persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside   to interfere in or undermine public confidence in   elections, including through the unauthorized accessing of election and campaign infrastructure or the covert distribution of propaganda and disinformation, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  . Although there has been no evidence of a foreign power altering the outcome or vote tabulation in any   election, foreign powers have historically sought to exploit  's free and open political system. In  , the proliferation of digital devices and internet-based communications has created significant vulnerabilities and magnified the scope and intensity of the threat of foreign interference, as illustrated in the   Intelligence Community Assessment. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with this threat.

Accordingly, I hereby order:

Section 1

. (a) Not   after the conclusion of a   election, the Director of  , in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate executive departments and agencies (agencies), shall conduct an assessment of any information indicating that a foreign government, or any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign government, has acted with the intent or purpose of interfering in that election. The assessment shall identify, to the maximum extent ascertainable, the nature of any foreign interference and any methods employed to execute it, the persons involved, and the foreign government or governments that authorized, directed, sponsored, or supported it. The Director of   shall deliver this assessment and appropriate supporting information to the President, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of  .

(b) Within   of receiving the assessment and information described in section 1(a) of this order, the Attorney General and the Secretary of  , in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate agencies and, as appropriate,   and local officials, shall deliver to the President, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of Defense a report evaluating, with respect to   election that is the subject of the assessment described in  ):

(i) the extent to which any foreign interference that targeted election infrastructure materially affected the security or integrity of that infrastructure, the tabulation of votes, or the timely transmission of election results; and

(ii) if any foreign interference involved activities targeting the infrastructure of, or pertaining to, a political organization, campaign, or candidate, the extent to which such activities materially affected the security or integrity of that infrastructure, including by unauthorized access to, disclosure or threatened disclosure of, or alteration or falsification of, information or data.

The report shall identify any material issues of fact with respect to these matters that the Attorney General and the Secretary of   are unable to evaluate or reach agreement on at the time the report is submitted. The report shall also include updates and recommendations, when appropriate, regarding remedial actions to be taken by  , other than the sanctions described in sections 2 and 3 of this order.

(c) Heads of all relevant agencies shall transmit to the Director of   any information relevant to the execution of the Director's duties pursuant to this order, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law. If relevant information emerges after the submission of the report mandated by section 1(a) of this order, the Director, in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate agencies, shall amend the report, as appropriate, and the Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall amend the report required by section 1(b), as appropriate.

(d) Nothing in this order shall prevent the head of any agency or any other appropriate official from tendering to the President, at any time through an appropriate channel, any analysis, information, assessment, or evaluation of foreign interference in a   election.

(e) If information indicating that foreign interference in a  , tribal, or local election within   has occurred is identified, it may be included, as appropriate, in the assessment mandated by section 1(a) of this order or in the report mandated by section 1(b) of this order, or submitted to the President in an independent report.

(f) Not   following the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Director of   shall develop a framework for the process that will be used to carry out their respective responsibilities pursuant to this order. The framework, which may be classified in whole or in part, shall focus on ensuring that agencies fulfill their responsibilities pursuant to this order in a manner that maintains methodological consistency; protects law enforcement or other sensitive information and intelligence sources and methods; maintains an appropriate separation between intelligence functions and policy and legal judgments; ensures that efforts to protect electoral processes and institutions are insulated from political bias; and respects the principles of free speech and open debate.

 . 2

. (a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of  :

(i) to have directly or indirectly engaged in, sponsored, concealed, or otherwise been complicit in foreign interference in a   election;

(ii) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in subsection (a)(i) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(iii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order. (b) Executive Order   of  , as amended by Executive Order   of  , remains in effect. This order is not intended to, and does not, serve to limit the Secretary of the  's discretion to exercise the authorities provided in Executive Order  . Where appropriate, the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  , may exercise the authorities described in Executive Order   or other authorities in conjunction with the Secretary of the  's exercise of authorities provided in this order.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 3

. Following the transmission of the assessment mandated by section 1(a) and the report mandated by section 1(b):

(a) the Secretary of the   shall review the assessment mandated by section 1(a) and the report mandated by section 1(b), and, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of  , impose all appropriate sanctions pursuant to section 2(a) of this order and any appropriate sanctions described in section 2(b) of this order; and

(b) the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the heads of other appropriate agencies, shall jointly prepare a recommendation for the President as to whether additional sanctions against foreign persons may be appropriate in response to the identified foreign interference and in light of the evaluation in the report mandated by section 1(b) of this order, including, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, proposed sanctions with respect to the largest business entities licensed or domiciled in a country whose government authorized, directed, sponsored, or supported election interference, including at least one entity from each of the following sectors: financial services, defense, energy, technology, and transportation (or, if inapplicable to that country's largest business entities, sectors of comparable strategic significance to that foreign government). The recommendation shall include an assessment of the effect of the recommended sanctions on the economic and national security interests of   and its allies. Any recommended sanctions shall be appropriately calibrated to the scope of the foreign interference identified, and may include one or more of the following with respect to each targeted foreign person:

(i) blocking and prohibiting all transactions in a person's property and interests in property subject to   jurisdiction;

(ii) export license restrictions under any statute or regulation that requires the prior review and approval of   as a condition for the export or re-export of goods or services;

(iii) prohibitions on   financial institutions making loans or providing credit to a person;

(iv) restrictions on transactions in foreign exchange in which a person has any interest;

(v) prohibitions on transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions, or by, through, or to any financial institution, for the benefit of a person;

(vi) prohibitions on   persons investing in or purchasing equity or debt of a person;

(vii) exclusion of a person's alien corporate officers from  ;

(viii) imposition on a person's alien principal executive officers of any of the sanctions described in this section; or

(ix) any other measures authorized by law.

 . 4

. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 2 of this order.

 . 5

. The prohibitions in section 2 of this order include the following:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 6

. I hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and I hereby suspend entry into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of such persons. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).

 . 7

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 8

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person (including a foreign person) in  ;

(d) the term "election infrastructure" means information and communications technology and systems used by or on behalf of   or a   or local government in managing the election process, including voter registration databases, voting machines, voting tabulation equipment, and equipment for the secure transmission of election results;

(e) the term "  election" means any election for Federal office held on, or after, the date of this order;

(f) the term "foreign interference," with respect to an election, includes any covert, fraudulent, deceptive, or unlawful actions or attempted actions of a foreign government, or of any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign government, undertaken with the purpose or

effect of influencing, undermining confidence in, or altering the result or reported result of, the election, or undermining public confidence in election processes or institutions;

(g) the term "foreign government" means any national, state, provincial, or other governing authority, any political party, or any official of any governing authority or political party, in each case of a country other than  ;

(h) the term "covert," with respect to an action or attempted action, means characterized by an intent or apparent intent that the role of a foreign government will not be apparent or acknowledged publicly; and

(i) the term "State" means the several   or any of the territories, dependencies, or possessions of  .

 . 9

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 2 of this order.

 . 10

. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

 . 11

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may re-delegate any of these functions to other officers within   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 12

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 13

. This order shall be implemented consistent with 50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1) and (3).

 . 14

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
