Executive Order 10905—Amendment of Executive Order 6260 of  , as Amended
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 5(b) of the act of  , as amended, 12 U.S.C.  , and in view of the continued existence of the national emergency proclaimed by Proclamation No. 2914 of  , I, DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, President of  , do hereby further amend Executive Order No.  , as amended, as follows:

1. By amending section 2 to read as follows:

"2. As used in this order, the term `person' means an individual, partnership, association or corporation; the term '  means   and any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof; and the term 'person subject to the jurisdiction of   means: (a) any individual who is a citizen of  ; (b) any individual, wherever located, who is a resident of, or domiciled in,  ; (c) any partnership, association, corporation or other organization which is organized or doing business under the laws of   or of any state or territory thereof or  ; and (d) any partnership, association, corporation or other organization wherever organized or doing business which is owned or controlled by persons specified in (a), (b), or (c)."

2. By adding at the end thereof a new section 12 reading as follows:

"12. Except under license issued therefor pursuant to the provisions of this order, no person subject to the jurisdiction of   shall, after the effective date of this section, acquire, hold in his possession, earmark, or retain any interest, legal or equitable, in any gold coin (other than gold coin having a recognized special value to collectors of rare and unusual coin), gold certificates, or gold bullion situated outside of  , or any securities issued by any person holding, as a substantial part of his assets, gold as a store of value or as, or in lieu of, money and not for a specific and customary industrial, professional or artistic use. The Secretary of the  , subject to such other regulations as he may prescribe, is authorized to issue licenses permitting, until  , the holding and disposition of any such securities or gold coin, certificates or bullion acquired by persons subject to the jurisdiction of   prior to the effective date of this section and owned by such persons on such date. The Secretary is further authorized to issue licenses permitting the acquisition and holding by persons subject to the jurisdiction of   of gold bullion situated outside of   which the Secretary or such agency as he may designate is satisfied is required for legitimate and customary use in the industry, profession or art in which such person is regularly engaged."

This amendment shall become effective upon filing for publication with  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
