Executive Order  —The Flag of  
 
 

WHEREAS   has this day been admitted into the  ; and

WHEREAS section 2 of title 4 of the United States Code provides as follows: "On the admission of a new   into the   one star shall be added to the union of the flag; and such addition shall take effect on   then next succeeding such admission."; and

WHEREAS   of   (63 Stat. 377), as amended, authorizes the President to prescribe policies and directives governing the procurement and utilization of property by executive agencies; and

WHEREAS the interests of the Government require that orderly and reasonable provision be made for various matters pertaining to the flag and that appropriate regulations governing the procurement and utilization of national flags and union jacks by executive agencies be prescribed:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , and   of  , as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

PART I-DESIGN OF THE FLAG

SECTION 1. The flag of   shall have thirteen horizontal stripes, alternate red and white, and a union consisting of white stars on a field of blue.

 . 2. The positions of the stars in the union of the flag and in the union jack shall be as indicated on the attachment to this order, which is hereby made a part of this order.

 . 3. The dimensions of the constituent parts of the flag shall conform to the proportions set forth in the attachment referred to in section 2 of this order.

PART II-REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXECUTIVE AGENCIES

 . 21. The following sizes of flags are authorized for executive agencies:

 . 22. Flags manufactured or purchased for the use of executive agencies:

(a) Shall conform to the provisions of Part I of this order, except as may be otherwise authorized pursuant to the provisions of section 24, or except as otherwise authorized by the provisions of section 21, of this order.

(b) Shall conform to the provisions of section 21 of this order, except as may be otherwise authorized pursuant to the provisions of section 24 of this order.

 . 23. The exterior dimensions of each union jack manufactured or purchased for executive agencies shall equal the respective exterior dimensions of the union of a flag of a size authorized by or pursuant to this order. The size of the union jack flown with the national flag shall be the same as the size of the union of that national flag.

 . 24. (a) The Secretary of   in respect of procurement for   (including military, colors) and   in respect of procurement for executive agencies other than   may, for cause which the Secretary or the Administrator, as the case may be, deems sufficient, make necessary minor adjustments in one or more of the dimensions or proportionate dimensions prescribed by this order, or authorize proportions or size other than those prescribed by section 3 or section 21 of this order.

(b) So far as practicable, (1) the actions of the Secretary of   under the provisions of section 24(a) of this order, as they relate to the various organizational elements of  , shall be coordinated, and (2) the Secretary and the Administrator shall mutually coordinate their actions under that section.

 . 25. Subject to such limited exceptions as the Secretary of   in respect of  , and   in respect of executive agencies other than  , may approve, all national flags and union jacks now in the possession of executive agencies, or hereafter acquired by executive agencies under contracts awarded prior to the date of this order, including those so possessed or so acquired by   for distribution to other agencies, shall be utilized until unserviceable.

PART III-GENERAL PROVISIONS

 .  . The flag prescribed by Executive Order No.  , shall be the official flag of   until  , and on that date the flag prescribed by Part I of this order shall become the official flag of  ; but this section shall neither derogate from section 24 or section 25 of this order nor preclude the procurement, for executive agencies, of flags provided for by or pursuant to this order at any time after the date of this order.

 .  . As used in this order, the term. "executive agencies" means the executive departments and independent establishments in the executive branch of the Government, including wholly-owned Government corporations.

 . 33. Executive  .  , is hereby revoked.

DWIGHT  

 ,

 ,  

 .
