Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS it is in the interest of the  's economy and security to promote the fullest utilization of all available manpower; and

WHEREAS it is the policy of   to promote equal employment opportunity for all qualified persons employed or seeking employment on government contracts because such persons are entitled to fair and equitable treatment in all aspects of employment on work paid for from public funds; and

WHEREAS it is the obligation of the contracting agencies of   and government contractors to insure compliance with, and successful execution of, the equal employment opportunity program of  ; and

WHEREAS existing executive orders require the government contracting agencies to include in their contracts a provision obligating the government contractor not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin and obligating the government contractor to include a similar provision in all subcontracts; and

WHEREAS a review and analysis of existing practices and procedures of government contracting agencies show that the practices and procedures relating to compliance with the nondiscrimination provisions must be revised and strengthened to eliminate discrimination in all aspects of employment:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, and as President of  , and pursuant to the authority conferred by and subject to the provisions of section 214 of the act of  . 59 Stat. 134, (31 U.S.C. 691), it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The head of each contracting agency of   shall be primarily responsible for obtaining compliance by any contractor or subcontractor with the said nondiscrimination provisions of any contract entered into, amended, or modified by his agency and of any subcontract thereunder, and shall take appropriate measures to bring about the said compliance.

 . 2. The head of each contracting agency shall take appropriate measures, including but not limited to the establishment of compliance procedures, to carry out the responsibility set forth in section 1 hereof.

 . 3. There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall be composed of fourteen members as follows:

(a) One representative of the following-named agencies to be designated by the respective heads of such agencies:  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(b) Eight other members to be appointed by the President. The Chairman and Vice Chairman shall be designated by the President.

 . 4. The   shall make recommendations to the contracting agencies for improving and making more effective the nondiscrimination provisions of government contracts. All contracting agencies of the   are directed and authorized to cooperate with the   and, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish the   such information and assistance as it may require in the performance of its functions under this order. The   shall establish such rules as may be necessary for the performance of its functions under this order, and shall make   or   reports on its progress to the President.

  5. The   may receive complaints of alleged violations of the nondiscrimination provisions of government contracts. Complaints received shall be transmitted by the   to the appropriate contracting agencies to be processed in accordance with the agencies' procedure for handling such complaints. Each contracting agency shall report to the   the action taken with respect to all complaints received by the agency, including those transmitted by  . The   shall review and analyze the reports submitted to it by the contracting agencies.

  6. The   shall encourage the furtherance of an educational program by employer, labor, civic, educational, religious, and other voluntary non-governmental groups in order to eliminate or reduce the basic causes and costs of discrimination in employment.

 . 7. The   is authorized to establish and maintain cooperative relationships with agencies of state and local governments, as well as with non-governmental bodies, to assist in achieving the purposes of this order.

 . 8. The government agencies (except  ) designated in section 3 (a) of this order shall defray such necessary expenses of the   as may be authorized by law, Including section 214 of the act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691); provided that no agency shall supply more than 50% of the funds necessary to carry out the purposes of this order.   shall provide necessary space and facilities for the  . In the case of   the contribution shall be limited to the rendering of legal services.

 . 9. Executive  .   of   (16 P. R.  ) is hereby revoked and   established thereby is abolished All records and property of the said   are transferred to  . The latter   shall wind up any outstanding affairs of the abolished  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
