Executive Order  —Further Amendment of Executive Order No.  , Prescribing Regulations Governing Payment of Certain Travel and   Expenses
 
 

By virtue of authority vested in me by the act of  , 60 Stat. 806, as amended, it is ordered that Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Regulations Governing Payment of Travel and   Employees of   when Transferred from One Official Station to Another for Permanent Duty," as amended by Executive Orders No. 9933 of  , No. 10196 of  , and No. 10274 of  , be, and it is hereby, further amended as follows:

Section 1. Section 12 of the said Executive Order No.  , as amended, is hereby further amended to read as follows:

"  12. (a) Commutation of expenses—general. In lieu of the payment of actual expenses of transportation, packing, crating, drayage, and unpacking of household goods and personal effects in the case of transfers between points within the continental  , reimbursement shall be made to the employee on a commuted basis at rates per hundred pounds as fixed by zones in   which is attached to and made a part of these regulations. The amount payable shall be the product of the applicable rate and the net weight of household goods and personal effects actually transported (within the weight limitation prescribed by section 16 hereof). In case the weight of the household goods transported is less than the one-thousand pound minimum weight allowance chargeable under applicable tariffs, the employee may be reimbursed to the extent of the minimum tariff requirement. Government bills of lading shall not be used.

(b) Commutation of expenses—temporary storage. In lieu of the payment of actual expenses of temporary storage of household goods and personal effects in the case of transfers between points within the continental   and in addition to allowances under  , reimbursement shall not exceed the amount actually paid by the employee for the storage in question. Any claim for reimbursement for temporary storage shall be supported by the original or certified copy of the receipted warehouse bill.

 . 2. Schedule A attached to and forming a part of the said Executive Order No.  , as last amended by the said Executive Order No.  , is hereby further amended to read as follows:

Note: The tariffs approved by   include minimum weight provisions to insure that, in   where the charges computed in one bracket exceed those computed for the same mileage in the next higher bracket, the lower rate is used. The breakpoint columns in   are designed as a convenience in determining the proper amount of reimbursement in such  .

1

The rate applicable for the transportation of 1,999 pounds, net, or less for the applicable mileage, column (a), is that shown in column (b) unless the net weight exceeds the number of pounds shown in column (c) for the applicable mileage; in the latter case the applicable rate is that shown in column (d) for the same mileage and the applicable weight is the minimum hundredweight of that column Instead of the actual weight of the goods transported.

2

In the case of transportation of household goods weighing 2,000 to 3,999, net, the amount of reimbursement is computed by using columns (d), (e), and (f) in the same manner as described above for columns (b), (c), and (d).

3

In the case of transportation of household goods weighing 4,000 to 7,000 pounds, net, the amount of reimbursement Is the product of the applicable rate In column (f) for the applicable mileage multiplied by the number of hundredweight transported.

To illustrate: The amount of reimbursement for the transportation of 1,800 pounds, net, for 100 miles is computed by using the applicable rate in column (d), $4.69 (since 1,800 pounds exceeds the applicable column (c) weight, 1,735 pounds) and the minimum hundredweight of column (d), 20. The amount so computed is $93.80. The amount of reimbursement for the transportation of 1,700 pounds, net, a distance of 100 miles is the product of the applicable rate In column (b), $3.41 (since 1,700 pounds does not exceed the applicable weight in column (c), 1,735 pounds) multiplied by the net hundredweight transported,  . The amount so computed is $91.97.

Additional Allowances

Island Shipments.

To the amount of reimbursement computed from the foregoing table add (a) $3.50 per hundred pounds for each shipment by common carrier having  ,  , as its origin or destination, or (b) $5.00 per hundred pounds for each shipment by common carrier having its origin or destination on any other island of one of the coastal   that can be reached by motor carrier transportation only by use of ferry or ship.

Metropolitan Areas.

To the amount of reimbursement computed from the foregoing table add (a) 30 cents per hundred pounds for each shipment by common carrier originating or terminating, or both, in one of the areas described below, or (b) add 60 cents per hundred pounds for each shipment' by common carrier originating in one of the areas described below and terminating in another of such areas:

Illinois:  , and   and Lake Counties and any point within the territory bounded by Lake Michigan and   on the east,   30 on the south,   31 on the west, and   on the north, Including corporate limits of points and places on the specified highways.

 :  , and any point in  .

 :  , and any point in  ,  , and  .

 :  , and any point in  .

  :  , and any point in  ,  , and   Counties.  , and any point in  .

This order shall be effective in any case in which the transportation   is authorized and commenced on or after  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
