Executive Order  —Delegating to the Director of   in the President by the Federal Aviation Act of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby delegated to the Director of   all authority vested in the President by the last sentence of section 304, and by sections   (a) and   (b), of the Federal Aviation Act of   (72 Stat. 749, 810), relating, respectively, (1) to providing, in connection with transfers of functions made under other provisions of section 304, (1) for appropriate transfers of records and property, and (11) for necessary civilian and military personnel to be made available from any office, department, or other agency from which transfers of functions are so made; (2) to determining the employees and property (including office equipment and official records) employed by   in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties which are vested in and imposed upon it by the Civil Aeronautics Act of  , as amended, and which are vested by the Federal Aviation Act of   in  , and to specifying the date or dates upon which the transfers of officers, employees, and property (including office equipment and official records) under section 1502 (a) shall occur; and (3) specifying the date or dates upon which transfers of unexpended balances of appropriations under section 1502 (b) shall occur. Such further measures and dispositions as the Director of   shall determine to be necessary in connection with the exercise of the authority delegated to him by this section shall be carried out in such manner as he shall direct and by such agencies as he shall designate.

 . 2. Executive  .   of  , delegating to the Director of   the authority vested in the President by a certain provision of the Airways Modernization Act of  , is hereby revoked, such revocation to become effective on the date the repeal of that act takes effect under sections   (d) and   (2) of the Federal Aviation Act of   (72 Stat. 806, 811).

 . 3. Except as otherwise provided in section 2 hereof, the provisions of this order shall become effective immediately.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
