Executive Order  —Determining the Termination of Certain Federal Functions in   and   to the Secretary of   to   Owned or Held by   in Connection With Such Functions
 
 

WHEREAS section 6(e) of the act of  . 72 Stat. 339, as amended, provides that the administration and management of the fish and wildlife resources of   shall be transferred to   on   following the expiration of   after the Secretary of the   certifies to the   that   has made adequate provision for the administration, management, and conservation of such resources in the broad national interest; and

WHEREAS the Secretary of the   made such certification to the   on  ; and

WHEREAS section 45(a) of   (73 Stat. 152) provides that if the President determines that any function performed by   in   has been terminated by   and that performance of such function or substantially the same function has been or will be assumed by  , the President may, until  , in his discretion, transfer and convey to  , without reimbursement, any property or interest in property, real or personal, situated in   which is owned or held by   in connection with such function; and

WHEREAS it appears that it would be in the public interest to delegate to the Secretary of the  , to the extent hereinafter indicated, the authority vested in the President by section 45(a) of  ;

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 45(a) of   (73 Stat. 152) and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. It is hereby determined that the functions performed by   in   pursuant to the   game law of  , 57 Stat. 301, the act of  , 34 Stat. 478, the act of  , 43 Stat. 465, and the acts amending or supplementing such acts, will terminate on  , and that the same functions or substantially the same functions will be assumed by  .

 . 2. There is hereby delegated to the Secretary of the  , effective  , the authority vested in the President by section 45(a) of   to transfer and convey to  , without reimbursement, any property or interest in property, real or personal, situated In   which is owned or held by   in connection with the functions described in section 1 hereof.

Sec 3. The Secretary of the   is hereby authorized to redelegate to (1) the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, (2) the Commissioner of Fish and Wildlife, (3) the Directors of the Bureaus of Commercial Fisheries and Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, and (4)  ,  , of   Sport Fisheries and Wildlife all or any part of the authority delegated to the Secretary of the   by section 2 hereof.

 . 4. All transfers and conveyances made under or pursuant to this order shall be made in accordance with such policies, conditions, and procedures as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the  .

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
