Executive Order  —Delegating to Certain Officers of   in the President To Designate Persons From Foreign Countries Who May Be Permitted To Receive Instruction at the Military, Naval,  , and Merchant Marine Academies
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of  , and, when designated by the Secretary of   for such purpose, the Secretary of the   are hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the authority vested in the President by the first section of the act of  , ch. 493,  . 311, as amended ( ), to designate persons from   (other than  ) and   who may be permitted to receive instruction at   at  ,  .

 . 2. The Secretary of  , and, when designated by the Secretary of   for such purpose, the Secretary of the   are hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following-described authority to designate persons who may be permitted to receive instruction at   at  ,  :

(a) The authority vested in the President by the act of  , ch. 292, 55 Stat. 589, as amended (34 U.S.C.  ), with respect to persons from   (other than  ) and  .

(b) The authority vested in the President by the act of  , ch. 616, 62 Stat. 583 (34 U.S.C.  ), with respect to  .

 . 3. The Secretary of  , and, when designated by the Secretary of   for such purpose, the Secretary of   are hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the authority vested in the President by the first section of the said act of  , as made applicable to   by section 5 of the act of  , ch. 127, 68 Stat. 48 (10 U.S.C.  ), to designate persons from   (other than  ) and   who may be permitted to receive instruction at  .

 . 4. The Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the authority vested in the President by the act of  , ch. 928, 60 Stat. 961 (   ), to designate persons from   (other than  ) who may be permitted to receive instruction in   Merchant Marine Cadet Corps and at   at  ,  .

 . 5. No persons shall be designated under the authority of this order to receive instruction except after consultation by the designating officer with the Secretary of  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
