Executive Order  —Authorizing the Secretaries of the  ,  , and   To Issue Citations in the Name of the President of   and Naval Units for Outstanding Performance in Action
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Secretaries of the  , the  , and  , respectively, are hereby authorized to issue a citation in the name of the President of  , as public evidence of deserved honor and distinction, to any organization, detachment, installation, ship, aircraft, or other unit for outstanding performance in action on or after  , in the case of the   or  , and on or after  , in the case of the   or  . Such citations may also be issued to units of armed forces of co-belligerent nations serving with the armed forces of   for outstanding performance in action on or after  ; provided that such units shall meet the standards established for the armed forces of  .

2. Appropriate insignia of such form and design as may be determined by the Secretary concerned may be displayed by any organization, detachment, installation, ship, aircraft, or other unit to which such citation is issued.

3. After any unit is cited pursuant to paragraph 1 hereof for outstanding performance in action, a ribbon identifying such citation shall be issued and shall become a permanent part of the uniform of those persons assigned or attached thereto who were actually present and participated in the action for which the unit was cited, or in one of the actions if more than one action is mentioned in the citation, whether they thereafter serve with such unit or with a different unit. Such persons are authorized to wear an appropriate additional device for any subsequent citation for which they are eligible, made either to the same unit or to a unit to which they are subsequently assigned. If authorized by the Secretary concerned, persons assigned to a unit subsequent to an action for which it was cited, may wear the citation ribbon while so assigned.

4. This order supersedes Executive Orders No. 9050 of  , and No.   of  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
