Executive Order 10909—Amendment of Executive Order  ,  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , and as Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , Executive Order No.   of   (25 F.R.  ), is hereby amended as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 1(c) is amended to read as follows:

"(c) When used in this order, the term 'head of a department' means the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Commissioners of  ,  , the Administrator of  , the head of any other department or agency of   with which   makes an agreement under subsection (b) of this section, and, in sections 4 and  , includes the Attorney General. The term 'department' means  ,  ,  ,  ,  , any other department or agency of   with which   makes an agreement under subsection (b) of this section, and, in sections 4 and  , includes  ."

 . 2. Section 6 is amended to read as follows:

" . 6. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , the Administrator of  , or his representative, or the head of any other department or agency of   with which   makes an agreement under section 1(b), or his representative, may issue, in appropriate cases, invitations and requests to appear and testify in order that the applicant may have the opportunity to cross-examine as provided by this order. Whenever a witness is so invited or requested to appear and testify at a proceeding and the witness is an officer or employee of the executive branch of the   or a member of the armed forces of  , and the proceeding involves the activity in connection with which the witness is employed, travel expenses and per diem are authorized as provided by   or  , as appropriate. In all other cases (including   employees as well as officers or employees of the executive branch of the   or members of the armed forces of   not covered by the foregoing sentence), transportation in kind and reimbursement for actual expenses are authorized in an amount not to exceed the amount payable under  . An officer or employee of the executive branch of the   or a member of the armed forces of   who is invited or requested to appear pursuant to this paragraph shall be deemed to be in the performance of his official duties. So far as the national security permits, the head of the investigative agency involved shall cooperate with the Secretary, the Administrator, or the head of the other department or agency, as the case may be, in identifying persons who have made statements adverse to the applicant and in assisting him in making them available for cross-examination. If a person so invited is an officer or employee of the executive branch of the   or a member of the armed forces of  , the head of the department or agency concerned shall cooperate in making that person available for cross-examination."

 . 3. Section 8 is amended by striking out the word "or" at the end of clause (5), by striking out the period at the end of clause (6) and inserting "; or" in place thereof, and by adding the following new clause at the end thereof:

"(7) the deputy of that department, or the principal assistant to the head of that department, as the case may be, in the case of authority vested in the head of a department or agency of   with which   makes an agreement under section 1 (b)."

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
