Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS a prosperous agriculture is fundamental to the national interest and general welfare; and

WHEREAS the development of sound Federal farm policies and the effective administration of Federal agricultural programs are high national duties; and

WHEREAS the better formulation of farm policies and the improved administration of agricultural programs would be furthered by the establishment of a commission composed of farmers and others closely connected with agriculture to render advice to the Secretary of Agriculture:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall be composed of eighteen members who shall be appointed by the President, not more than nine of whom shall be members of a single political party. At least twelve of the members of the   shall be representative farmers. The members of the   shall be appointed with a view toward granting appropriate representation to the several geographic sections of  . Of the members first appointed one-third shall be for a term ending  , one-third for a term ending  , and one-third for a term ending  . Successors shall be appointed for a term of  . The chairman of the   shall be designated by the President.

 . 2. The   shall from time to time, upon the request of the Secretary of  , hereinafter referred to as the Secretary, (a) review the policies and administration of farm programs within the jurisdiction of  , or any part of such policies and administration, and such related matters as the Secretary shall determine, and (b) advise the Secretary in regard thereto. The   shall meet at such times and places as the Secretary shall designate. The Secretary shall arrange at least one meeting of the   during   of each calendar year.

  3. Pending the availability of a specific appropriation for the expenses of the  , no Federal funds shall be expended in connection with the  .

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
