Executive Order  —Delegating and Transferring Certain Functions and Affairs to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , including authority vested in me by the provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of   and including also authority vested in me by provisions of law cited in the preambles of, or relied upon in connection with the issuance of, orders amended by this order, it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.  " and the "Director of  ", referred to in this order, are   that name and the officer with that title, respectively, provided for in Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958.

 . 2. (a) There are hereby delegated to the Director of  , with power of redelegation by him, all functions transferred to the President by the provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7 of this order, all functions of the President of   heretofore delegated or assigned to the Director of  ,  ,   (or  ), or   are, to the extent that those delegations or assignments were in effect  , redelegated or reassigned, as the case may be, to the Director of  .

 . 3. Except in instances wherein the provisions concerned are for any reason inapplicable as of the effective date of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of  :

(a) Each reference in any prior Executive order to the Director of   and each reference in any prior Executive order to   (or to  ) is hereby amended to refer to the Director of  .

(b) Each reference in any prior Executive order to   and each reference in any prior Executive order to   is hereby amended to refer to  .

Sze. 4. Without limiting the application of section 3 of this order, the amendments made thereby shall apply, subject to the provisions of section 3 of this order:

(a) To references to   (or to  ) and to references to   in the following-designated Executive orders, including any Executive orders amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto:

(1) Executive Order No.   of  .

(2) Executive Order No. 10260 of  .

(3) Executive Order No. 10346 of April  .

(4) Executive Order No.   of  .

(5) Executive Order No.  .

(6) Executive Order No.  .

(7) Executive Order No.   of  .

(b) To references to the Director of   and to references to   in the following-designated Executive orders, including any Executive order amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto:

(1) Executive Order No.   of  .

(2) Executive Order No.   of  .

(3) Executive Order No.   of  .

(4) Executive Order No. 10346 of April  .

(5) Executive Order No.   of  .

(6) Executive Order No. 10460 of June 16, 1953.

(7) Executive Order No.   of  , (except section 102).

(8) Executive Order No.   of  .

(9) Executive Order No.  .

(10) Executive Order No.  .

(11) Executive Order No.   of September 9, 1954.

(12) Executive Order No.   of  .

(13) Executive Order No. 10601 of  .

(14) Executive Order No.   of  .

(15) Executive Order No.   of  .

(16) Executive Order No.   of  .

(17) Executive Order No.   of  .

(18) Executive Order No. 10700 of  .

(19) Executive Order No. 10705 of  .

 . 5. Each reference in Executive Order No.   of  , to a Regional Administrator of   is hereby amended to refer to a Regional Director of  .

 . 6. (a) There is hereby established in  . The Board shall be composed of the Director of  , who shall be the chairman of the  , and of the heads of such executive departments and agencies of the Government as may be designated, with their consent, from time to time by the Director.

(b) The Director of   may from time to time establish subsidiary units of the   and assign suitable names thereto. The Director and the heads of any executive departments and agencies may be designated, with their consent, as members of such units. The Director shall be the chairman of any subsidiary unit of which he is a member and he shall designate the chairman of any other subsidiary unit from among the members thereof.

(c) The Board established by this section, and each subsidiary unit thereof established under this section, shall advise the Director of   with respect to matters relating to his responsibilities as he shall request.

 . 7. The following are hereby revoked:

(1) Executive Order No.   of  .

(2) Executive Order No.  .

(3) Executive Order No.   of  .

(4) Executive Order No.   of  .

(5) Executive Order No. 10475 of  .

(6) Section 102 of Executive Order No.   of  .

(7) Executive Order No. 10611 of  .

 . 8. This order shall not operate to terminate or impair any regulation, ruling, order, directive, certificate, determination, authorization, contract, agreement, or other action, issued, undertaken, or entered into with respect to any function affected by the provisions of sections 2,  , or 4 of this order; nor shall this order affect the validity or force of anything heretofore done in connection with any such function. Any of the instruments referred to in this section may be hereafter amended, modified, or revoked, by appropriate authority.

 . 9. The Director of   is hereby authorized to issue such regulations as he may deem necessary or desirable to carry out the purposes of this order.

 . 10. The provisions of this order shall be effective as of  , the effective date of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
