Executive Order  —  and Related Functions
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Mutual Security Act of  , including particularly sections 521 and 525 thereof (68 Stat. 855, 856), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

PART  ;  

SECTION 101. Exclusive of the functions transferred by the provisions of section 201 of this order, all functions conferred by law upon, or delegated or otherwise assigned by the President to, the Director of  , and all functions conferred by law upon, or otherwise placed under the jurisdiction of,   (including, subject to the provisions of sections 102 (b) and (c) of this order, all functions of agencies, officials, and employees of  ), are hereby transferred to the Secretary of   and  , respectively.

 . 102. The following are hereby transferred to  (a) All offices of  , exclusive of the office of Director of  .

(b)   and the functions vested in it by law, which functions shall remain therewith.

(c)   (68 Stat. 842) and the functions vested in it by law, which functions shall remain therewith.

(d)  , provided for in section 504 (b) of the Mutual Security Act of   (68 Stat. 851), and in section 101 (d) of Executive Order No.   (19 F. R. 7251).

 . 103. (a) The Secretary of   shall establish, with the offices, personnel, and facilities transferred to   by or under section 102 (a) and 302 of this order, an agency in   which shall be known as  . The agencies transferred by sections 102 (b), (c), and (d) of this order shall be made a part of or attached to  .   shall be headed by the Director of   referred to in the first sentence of section 103 (b) of this order. The said Director shall report directly to the Secretary of  . Except as may be otherwise provided by the Secretary of   in respect of the matters referred to in section 104 of this order, the functions transferred by section 101 hereof shall be carried out by or under   or the Director thereof. The said Administration, including all its officers and agencies, and all functions transferred by this Part shall be subject to the direction and control of the Secretary of  . To such extent as the Secretary of   shall prescribe, consistent with law and without diminishing assignments made or required to be made by this order to   or the Director thereof, the said   and Director shall be deemed to be the successors of   and the Director thereof, respectively, in respect of transfers to   and the Secretary of   made by this order.

(b) The title of Deputy Director of   is hereby changed to Director of  . The Director of   may, as he deems proper, change the title of and utilize in connection with the functions transferred by this order any other office of   transferred hereby.

 . 104. (a) The Secretary of  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , shall make appropriate arrangements for carrying out the function of coordination referred to in section 102 (c) (1) of Executive Order No.  .

(b) The Secretary of   or, if he shall so direct, the Director of   shall (1) carry out the functions under   of   transferred by section 101 of this order, (2) carry out the functions under section 501 (a) (2) of the Mutual Security Act of   (as continued by section 525 of the Mutual Security Act of  ), (3) make the determinations authorized by the last sentence of section 524 (b) of the Mutual Security Act of  , and (4) coordinate the functions of   and other affairs of  .

PART II. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

 . 201. So much of the functions under chapter 2 of Title I of the Mutual Security Act of   now vested in or delegated to or otherwise conferred upon the Director of   or   as consists of furnishing to recipients eligible under that chapter, equipment, materials, or services which are delivered or rendered directly to the military forces of the recipient country or its agent (including a civilian contractor with such force) for the exclusive use, or to be under the exclusive control, of such military forces and without entering into or being processed by the civilian economy of the recipient country except as above provided is hereby transferred to the Secretary of   and  , respectively.

 . 202. The determination of the value of the program for any country under so much of chapter 2 of Title I of the Mutual Security Act of   as pertains to the functions transferred by section 201 of this order shall be made by the Secretary of  .

PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 . 301. As used in this order, the term functions includes powers, duties, authority, responsibilities, and discretion.

 . 302. So much of the records, property, personnel, positions, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds of   as the Director of   shall determine shall be transferred to  . There are hereby transferred to   all other records, property, personnel, positions, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds of   (including those of  ,  , and  , which shall be transferred with those agencies, respectively). Such further measures and dispositions as the Director of   may deem necessary in order to effectuate the transfers provided for in this section shall be carried out in such manner as he shall direct and by such agencies as he shall designate.

 . 303. (a)  , including the office of Director of   but excluding all other offices of, and all agencies and positions of,  , and excluding also all functions transferred by the provisions of this order, is hereby abolished.

(b) The memberships of the Director of   on the following bodies, together with the functions of the said Director in his capacity as member of each thereof, are hereby abolished: (1)  , (2)  , (3)  , (4)  , (5)  , and (6)  : Provided, That the Director of   or his designated representative shall participate in the deliberations, and assist in connection with the affairs, of the bodies mentioned in items (2) to (6), inclusive, above, and of  .

 . 304. Nothing in this order shall be construed to derogate from the authority of the President, after the date of approval of this order, (1) to delegate functions conferred upon him by the Mutual Security Act of   or by other law other than as transferred or otherwise assigned by this order, (2) to transfer to any agency or officer of  , or to modify or abolish, any function, office, or entity of   or the successor thereof or any officer or employee thereof, or (3) to transfer such personnel, property, records, and funds as may be necessary incident thereto.

 . 305. Except to the extent inconsistent with this order, all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements, and other actions issued, undertaken, or entered into with respect to any function affected by this order and not heretofore revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable, shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority; but any reference therein to any officer or agency abolished by this order shall hereafter be deemed to be a reference to the appropriate successor officer or agency under this order.

 . 306. This order shall become effective at the close of  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
