Executive Order  —  in  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, including the Foreign Service Act of   (60 Stat. 999), as amended, and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. Executive  . 10062 of June 6,  , and Executive Order No. 10144 of July 21,  , amending that order, are hereby revoked, and the position of   High Commissioner for  , established by that order, is hereby abolished.

2. The Chief of   to  , hereinafter referred to as the Chief of Mission, shall have  , except as otherwise provided herein, with respect to all responsibilities, duties, and governmental functions of   in all  . The Chief of Mission shall exercise his authority under the supervision of the Secretary of   and subject to ultimate direction by the President.

3.   Commander having area responsibility in  , hereinafter referred to as the Commander, shall have authority with respect to all military responsibilities, duties, and functions of   in all  , including the command, security, and stationing of   forces in  , the assertion and exercise of their rights and discharge of their obligations therein, and emergency measures which he may consider essential for their protection or the accomplishment of his mission. The Commander may delegate the authority conferred upon him. If action by the Commander or any representative of the Commander, pursuant to the authority herein conferred, affects the foreign policy of   or involves relations or negotiations with non-military   authorities, such action shall be taken only after consultation with and agreement by the Chief of Mission or pursuant to procedures previously agreed to between the Chief of Mission and the Commander or his representative. Either the Chief of Mission or the Commander may raise with the other any question which he believes requires such consultation. If agreement is not reached between them, any differences may be referred to   and   for resolution.

4. The Chief of Mission and the Commander or his designated representatives shall, to the fullest extent consistent with their respective missions, render assistance and support to each other in carrying out the agreements and policies of  .

5. With regard to the custody, care, and execution of sentences and disposition (including pardon, clemency, parole, or release) of war criminals confined or hereafter to be confined in   as a result of conviction by military tribunals (A) the Chief of Mission shall share the four-power responsibility in the case of persons convicted by  , (B) the Chief of Mission shall exercise responsibility in the case of persons convicted by military tribunal, established by   Governor pursuant to   10, and (C) the Commander shall exercise responsibility in the case of persons convicted by other military tribunals established by   in   and elsewhere. The Commander shall, on request of the Chief of Mission, take necessary measures for carrying into execution any sentences adjudged against such persons in category (B) as to whom the Chief of Mission has responsibility and control. Transfer of custody of persons in categories (B) and (C) to   as provided in the Convention on the Settlement of Matters Arising out of the War and Occupation shall terminate the responsibility of the Chief of Mission and the Commander with respect to such persons to the extent that the responsibility of   for them is thereupon terminated pursuant to the provisions of the said  .

6. If major differences arise over matters affecting   in  , such differences may be referred to   and   for resolution.

7. This order shall become effective on the date that   between   and   and related Conventions, as amended, come into force.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
