Executive Order 10574—Amendment of Executive Order No.   Providing for  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Sections 301 and 312 of Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Further Providing for the Administration of the Defense Mobilization Program", are hereby amended to read as follows:

" . 301.  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , in this Part referred to as guaranteeing agencies, each officer having functions delegated to him pursuant to section 201 (a) of this order, and each other agency of the Government having mobilization functions, shall, within areas of production designated by the Director of  , develop and promote measures for the expansion of productive capacity and of production and supply of materials and facilities necessary for the national defense.

" . 312. The functions conferred by sections 303, 305 and 306 of this order shall be carried out in accordance with programs certified by the Director of  . Each officer and agency of the Government having mobilization functions shall make recommendations to the Director of   for the issuance of certificates or other action under sections 302 and 303 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, and for the issuance of certificates under subsections (e) and (g) of section 168 of the Internal Revenue Code of  , with respect to the materials and facilities which are, pursuant to the designation of areas of production by the Director of   under section 301 of this order, as amended, within the jurisdiction of such officer or agency."

 . 2. Any reference in any regulation or other Executive document issued or approved by the President to any provision of   of   shall, except as may be inconsistent with   of   or otherwise inappropriate, be deemed also to refer to the corresponding provision of   of  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
