Executive Order 10869—Amendment of Civil Service Rule II, as Prescribed by Executive Order No.   of  
 
 

WHEREAS the appointment of postmasters to fourth-class post offices is controlled in part by regulations approved by the President on  , as amended by Executive Orders No. 1778 of  , No.   of  , No.   of  , No.   of  , and No.   of  ; and

WHEREAS it is in the interest of efficiency of operation that the regulations governing the appointment of postmasters of the fourth class be revised and incorporated into   as hereinafter set forth:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (5 U.S.C. 631), by   of   (22 Stat. 403), and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 2.1 of Civil Service Rule H, as prescribed by Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended by adding thereto a new subsection (c) reading as follows:

"(c) Whenever   (1) is unable to certify a sufficient number of names to permit the appointing officer to consider three eligibles for appointment to a fourth-class postmaster position in accordance with the regular procedure, or (2) finds that a particular rate of compensation for fourth-class postmaster positions is too low to warrant regular competitive examinations for such positions, it may authorize appointment to any such position or positions in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed by the  . Persons appointed under this subsection may acquire competitive status subject to satisfactory completion of a probationary period prescribed by the  "

 . 2. The following-designated Executive orders and regulations are hereby revoked: Executive Order No. 982 of  ; Executive Order No.   of  ; the regulations approved by the President on  , governing the appointment of postmasters of the fourth class; Executive Order No.   of  ; Executive Order No. 1778 of  ; Executive Order No.   of  ; Executive Order No.   of  ; and Executive Order No. 10337 Of  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
