Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including the Trade Agreements Act approved  , as amended (48 Stat. 943; 57 Stat. 125; 59 Stat. 410; 63 Stat. 698; 65 Stat. 72; 69 Stat. 162; 19 U.S.C.  ), it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established  , consisting of the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , or of alternates designated by them. Such alternates shall be officials who are required to be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the  . The Secretary of   or his alternate shall be the Chairman of  . The   may invite the participation in its activities of other Government agencies when matters of interest thereto are under consideration; provided that such participation shall be limited to the heads of such agencies, or their alternates who are required to be appointed to office as above described.

 . 2.   shall make recommendations to the President on basic policy issues arising in the administration of the trade-agreements program, which, as approved by the President, shall guide   established by paragraph 1 of Executive Order No.   of   (hereinafter referred to as  ), in carrying out its functions.

 . 3. Each recommendation made by   to the President, together with the dissent of any agency, shall be transmitted to the President through  , which shall submit to the President such advice with respect to such recommendation as it may deem appropriate. The said Executive Order No.   is hereby amended accordingly.

 . 4.   shall make recommendations to the President as to what action, if any, he should take on reports submitted to him by   pursuant to section 7 of   of  , as amended (65 Stat. 74; 67 Stat. 472; 69 Stat. 166), and pursuant to Executive Order No.   of October 14, 1952.

 . 5. Agencies of the Government shall furnish   available information upon request of the   therefor for use in connection with the carrying out of the functions conferred upon the   by this order.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
