Executive Order  —Designation of  
 
 

WHEREAS pursuant to the provisions of   of   (36 Stat. 2448),   and   on  , filed concurrent and complementary applications with   for an Order of Approval of the construction, jointly by entities to be designated by the respective Governments, of certain works for the development of power in   of the St. Lawrence River and of the maintenance and operation of such works; and

WHEREAS the   on  , issued an Order of Approval for the construction, maintenance, and operation of such works jointly by   and by an entity to be designated by  , subject to the terms and conditions contained in that Order of Approval; and

WHEREAS condition (g) of   reads in part as follows:

"In accordance with the  , the establishment by   and of   of a Joint Board of Engineers to be known as   (hereinafter referred to as  ) consisting of an equal number of representatives of   and   to be designated by the respective  , is approved. The duties of   shall be to review and coordinate, and, if both Governments so authorize, approve the plans and specifications of the works and the programs of construction thereof submitted for the approval of the respective Governments as specified above, and to assure the construction of the works in accordance therewith as approved. *****

and

WHEREAS   on  , issued a license (hereinafter referred to as the  ) to   for the construction, maintenance, and operation of  .  , which project represents that portion of the works for the development of power in   of the St. Lawrence River located within  :

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Designation of  .   is hereby declared to be the designee of   for the construction of the works referred to in   of   of  .

 . 2. Establishment of United States Section of St. Lawrence River Joint Board of Engineers. There is hereby established  , composed of two members and hereinafter referred to as  . The Secretary of the   and the Chairman of   are hereby designated members. Each may designate an alternate to act for him as member of  .

SEC 3. Duties of  .   Section shall represent the Government of   on   in the performance of the duties specified in condition (g) of  , and is authorized to act with   in the approval of the plans and specifications of the works and the programs of construction thereof, submitted for approval of the respective Governments as required by  , and to assure the construction of the works in accordance with such approval.

 . 4. Assistance to  .   and   are authorized to furnish such assistance, including facilities, supplies and personnel, to   as may be consonant with law and necessary for the purpose of effectuating this order.

 . 5. Reports to the President.   shall submit its final report to the President upon the completion of construction and shall submit such   reports as may appear to be desirable.

 . 6. Effective date. This order shall be effective upon the date that the   becomes final.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
