Executive Order  —Delegating Functions Conferred Upon the President by Section 8 of   of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Except as otherwise provided in this order, the Secretary of   is hereby authorized and empowered to perform, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the functions vested in the President by section 8 of   of  , approved   (Public Law 239, 83d  ), hereinafter referred to as the Act. The Secretary of  , after appropriate consultation with the Secretaries of the  ,  , and  , and  , shall prepare for   a consolidated report on operations and financing of the benefits authorized by the Act and shall present such report to the President not   following the close of  , for transmittal by the President to the  .

 . 2. The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , and   are hereby severally authorized and empowered to perform, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the function vested in the President by section 8 of the Act of prescribing regulations for the administration of the Act; provided that the regulations prescribed by any such Secretary shall relate only to   which the Secretary is the head.

 . 3. The regulations prescribed by the said Secretaries under section 2 of this order shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of  ; shall be designed to achieve the uniform, equitable, and economical administration of the Act; shall include uniform tables of actuarial equivalents and provision that term insurance values shall be computed by uniform methods prescribed by   provided for in section 8 of the Act; and, to the extent deemed necessary, shall include (a) procedures for informing personnel of their rights, for submitting elections and claims, and for reconsideration of determinations, and (b) definitions of terms.

  4. Functions under section 8 of the Act with respect to the selection of a member of   from among the membership of   and the fixing of his compensation are reserved to the President.

  5. The meaning of the terms "functions" and "perform" as used in this order shall be the same as the meaning of those terms as used in chapter 4 of title 3 of the United States Code.

This order shall become effective on  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .
