Executive Order  —The President's    
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and in order to provide for the carrying out of the provisions of the Joint Resolution approved  , ch. 302, 63 Stat. 409, as amended, and the provisions of section 8 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act, as amended by section 2 of   of   (68 Stat. 659; 29 U.S.C. 38), it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Composition of the  . (a) There is hereby continued, subject to the provisions of this order and under the name of  , the now existing committee of that name (heretofore sometimes referred to as the President's    ).

(b) The President's   (hereinafter referred to as the   or as  ) shall be composed of a Chairman and not more than two Vice Chairmen, who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the President, and of so many other members as may be appointed thereto from time to time by the Chairman of the President's Committee upon the advice of   (hereinafter provided for) from among persons (including representatives of organizations) who can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the  . Members appointed by the Chairman shall be appointed for a period of   and may be reappointed. The foregoing provisions of this subsection shall not operate to terminate the membership of any person who is a member of the   immediately prior to the issuance of this order. The Chairman of  , with the approval of  , may at any time terminate the service of any member of  , except any member appointed by the President.

(c) The Chairman of  , upon the advice of  , may designate as, or invite to be, associate members of   any heads of   departments and agencies which have responsibility for rehabilitation services or promotional activities touching the field of interest of the   or which are leading utilizers of physically handicapped personnel,   and territories, and representatives of such heads or  .

 . 2. Functions of the Committee. The President's Committee shall facilitate the development of maximum employment opportunities for the physically handicapped. To this end the   shall supply information to employers, conduct a program of public education, and enlist the aid and cooperation of Federal officials,   officials, Governor's committees, local committees, professional trade groups, and organized labor. In carrying out the functions vested in it by section 8 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act, as amended, the   shall work closely with  ,  , and  , the Veterans' Administration, State employment-security agencies, and   vocational-rehabilitation agencies. Representatives of industry, labor, and public and private agencies may be invited to attend meetings of  .

 . 3.  . (a) There is hereby established   of the President's  .   shall be composed of the Chairman of  , who shall also be the Chairman of  , the Vice Chairmen of the President's Committee, and so many additional members as will provide   of not less than fifteen and not more than forty members. The said additional members shall be appointed   by the Chairman of  , from among the members of   or otherwise. The Chairman of   may at any time terminate the service of any member of  .

(b)   shall advise and assist the Chairman of   in the conduct of the business of   and, as authorized by   or the Chairman thereof (with due regard for the responsibilities of other Federal agencies), shall study the problems of the physically handicapped in obtaining and retaining suitable employment, invite authorities in the various professional, technical, and other pertinent fields to assist in the exploration of those problems, and review and develop plans and projects for promoting the employment of the physically handicapped.

 . 4.  . There is hereby established  , which shall advise the President's Committee with respect to the responsibilities of the  . The   shall be composed of the Chairman of  , who shall also be the Chairman of the  , and of the following-named officers, or their respective alternates: the Secretary of  , Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Administrator of  , and the Chairman of  .

 . 5. Administrative and incidental matters. (a) The President's Committee,  , and the   shall each meet on the call of the Chairman of   at a time and place designated by him. In the case of   and  , the Chairman shall call at least one meeting and two meetings, respectively, to be held during each calendar year.

(b) In the absence of designation by the President, the Chairman of   may from time to time designate a Vice Chairman of   to be one or more of the following-named in the absence of the Chairman: Acting Chairman of  , Acting Chairman of  , and Acting Chairman of  . The Chairman of the President's Committee shall from time to time assign other duties to the Vice Chairmen thereof.

(c) The Chairman of the President's Committee shall on behalf of the President direct the   and its functions.

(d) The Chairman may from time to time prescribe such necessary rules, procedures, and policies relating to  ,  , and  , and their affairs, as are not inconsistent with law or with the provisions of this order.

(e) All members (including the Chairman and Vice Chairmen) of  ,  , and the   shall serve without compensation. The Chairman and the Vice Chairmen of the President's Committee may receive transportation and per-diem allowances as authorized by law for persons serving without compensation.

(f) Employees of the   shall be appointed, subject to law, and shall be directed, by the Chairman of the  . To such extent as may be mutually arranged by the Chairman of the   and the Secretary of  , employees of the   shall be subject to the administrative rules, regulations, and procedures of  .

(g)   is requested to make available to the President's Committee necessary office space and to furnish the  , under such arrangements respecting financing as may be appropriate, necessary equipment, supplies, and services. The estimates of appropriations for the operations of the   shall be included within the framework of the appropriation structure of  , in such manner as the Director of   may prescribe. The Chairman of the  , in cooperation with  , shall be responsible for the preparation and justification of the estimates of appropriations for the  .

 . 6. Prior orders. To the extent that this order is inconsistent with any provision of any other order, or with any provision of any regulation or other measure or disposition, issued, made, or taken by the President or by any other officer of the executive branch of the Government, this order shall control.

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
