Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) In order to provide for the integrated implementation of national security policies by the several agencies, there is hereby established an  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall report to  .

(b)   shall have as members the following: (1) the Under Secretary of  , who shall represent the Secretary of   and shall be the chairman of  , (2) the Deputy Secretary of  , who shall represent the Secretary of  , (3) the Director of  , (4) the Director of  , and (5) a representative of the President to be designated by the President. Each head of agency referred to in items (1) to (4), inclusive, in this section 1 (b) may provide for an alternate member who shall serve as a member of the   in lieu of the regular member representing the agency concerned when such regular member is for reasons beyond his control unable to attend any meeting of the  ; and any alternate member shall while serving as such have in all respects the same status as a member of the   as does the regular member in lieu of whom he serves.

(c) The head of any agency (other than any agency represented under section 1 (b) hereof) to which the President from time to time assigns responsibilities for the implementation of national security policies, shall assign a representative to serve on the   when the   is dealing with subjects bearing directly upon the responsibilities of such head. Each such representative shall be an Under Secretary or corresponding official and when so serving such representative shall have the same status on the   as the members provided for in the said section 1 (b).

(d) The Special Assistant to the President for   may attend any meeting of the Board. The Director of   shall advise the   at its request.

  2.   having recommended a national security policy and the President having approved it, the   shall (1) whenever the President shall hereafter so direct, advise with the agencies concerned as to (a) their detailed operational planning responsibilities respecting such policy, (b) the coordination of the interdepartmental aspects of the detailed operational plans developed by the agencies to carry out such policy, (c) the timely and coordinated execution of such policy and plans, and (d) the execution of each security action or project so that it shall make Its full contribution to the attainment of national security objectives and to the particular climate of opinion   is seeking to achieve in the world, and (2) initiate new proposals for action within the framework of national security policies in response to opportunity and changes in the situation. The Board shall perform such other advisory functions as the President may assign to it and shall from time to time make reports to   with respect to the carrying out of this order.

 . 3. Consonant with law, each agency represented on the   shall, as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating this order, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include detailing employees to the  , one of whom may serve as its Executive Officer, to perform such functions, consistent with the purposes of this order, as the   may assign to them.

 . 4.   shall be abolished not   after the date of this order and its outstanding affairs shall be wound up by  .

 . 5. As used herein, the word "agency" may be construed to mean any instrumentality of the executive branch of the Government, including any executive department.

 . 6. Nothing in this order shall be construed either to confer upon the   any function with respect to internal security or to in any manner abrogate or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any agency or head of agency (including   and the Director of  ).

DWIGHT  

 ,

 .
