Executive Order  —Providing Assistance for the Removal of an Obstruction of Justice Within the State of  
 
 

WHEREAS on  , I issued Proclamation No.   reading in part as follows:

"WHEREAS certain persons in the state of  , individually and in unlawful assemblages, combinations, and conspiracies, have wilfully obstructed the enforcement of orders of   District Court for the Eastern District of   with respect to matters relating to enrollment and attendance at public schools, particularly at  , located in  ,  ,  ; and

"WHEREAS such wilful [

See APP Note]

obstruction of justice hinders the execution of the laws of that   and of  , and makes it impracticable to enforce such laws by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings; and

"WHEREAS such obstruction of justice constitutes a denial of the equal protection of the laws secured by the Constitution of the United States and impedes the course of justice under those laws:

"NOW, THEREFORE, I, DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, President of  , under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and Statutes of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, particularly sections 332, 333 and 334 thereof, do command all persons engaged in such obstruction of justice to cease and desist therefrom, and to disperse forthwith;" and

WHEREAS the command contained in that   has not been obeyed and wilful obstruction of enforcement of said court orders still exists and threatens to continue:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and Statutes of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10, particularly sections 332, 333 and 334 thereof, and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, It is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. I hereby authorize and direct the Secretary of   to order into the active military service of   as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  , any or all of the units of   of   and of   of   within the State of   to serve in the active military service of   for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders.

 . 2. The Secretary of   is authorized and directed to take all appropriate steps to enforce any orders of   District Court for the Eastern District of   for the removal of obstruction of justice in   with respect to matters relating to enrollment and attendance at public schools in  ,  ,  . In carrying out the provisions of this section, the Secretary of   is authorized to use the units, and members thereof, ordered into the active military service of   pursuant to Section 1 of this  .

 . 3. In furtherance of the enforcement of the aforementioned orders of   District Court for the Eastern District of  , the Secretary of   is authorized to use such of the armed forces of   as he may deem necessary.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to delegate to the Secretary of the   or the Secretary of  , or both, any of the authority conferred upon him by this  .

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

 ,

 .

Related      

APP NOTE:  The use of the spelling "wilful" in the third paragraph reflects the original document.  This spelling, rather than the more common "willful" is considered to be acceptable.
