113 HRES 267 IH: Congratulating the University of Washington Huskies Men’s Crew Team for winning the 2013 Intercollegiate Rowing Association National Championship.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-06-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 267
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 17, 2013
Mr. McDermott
(for
himself,
Mr. Larsen of Washington
,
Mr. Smith of Washington
,
Ms. DelBene
,
Mr. Kilmer
,
Mr. Heck of Washington
, and
Ms. Herrera Beutler
) submitted the
following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the
Workforce
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the University of Washington
Huskies Men’s Crew Team for winning the 2013 Intercollegiate Rowing Association
National Championship.
Whereas crew is the oldest intercollegiate sport in the
United States, dating back to 1852;
Whereas the Intercollegiate Rowing Association
Championship, which began in 1895, is the oldest college rowing championship in
the United States and is one of the most prestigious championships in
collegiate rowing;
Whereas the University of Washington first attended the
Intercollegiate Rowing Association Championship in 1913;
Whereas the Washington Huskies Men’s Crew Team was the
number one ranked team in the United States all season and entered the
Intercollegiate Rowing Association Championships as the top seeded team;
Whereas the University of Washington Huskies Men’s Crew
Team are the National Champions after a dominating performance at the 111th
Annual IRA National Championships;
Whereas the Huskies capped a perfect weekend on Lake
Natoma by sweeping all 5 grand finals to win their third-consecutive and 16th
overall National Championship for the University of Washington Men’s
Crew;
Whereas the Huskies broke their own record in
Intercollegiate Rowing Association history, with no team ever winning more than
4 consecutive Ten Eyck awards until the Huskies made it 5 in 2011, 6 in 2012,
and now 7 in 2013;
Whereas the entire University of Washington Men’s Crew
Team should be commended for demonstrating determination, work ethic, and
heart;
Whereas University of Washington Men’s Crew coach, Michael
Callahan, has led the team to 4 national titles, 2 second-place titles, never
lost a Ten Eyck award, and has accomplished a feat no other program in
collegiate rowing has ever accomplished, sweeping every Intercollegiate Rowing
Association category at the finals not once but twice;
Whereas the Huskies Men’s Crew Team is also the 2013
Pac-12 Champions;
Whereas the Husky men had a total of 11 student-athletes
selected to the Pac-12's All-Academic list with a minimum of a 3.0 minimum
grade point average; and
Whereas Husky seniors were chosen for the Pac-12 All
Conference Rowing Team while sophomore Alex Perkins was honored as the Pac-12
Newcomer of the Year and head coach Michael Callahan received the Coach of the
Year award for the fourth straight year: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
congratulates the
University of Washington Huskies Men’s Crew Team on their stellar 2013 season
and for winning the 2013 Intercollegiate Rowing Association National
Championship; and
(2)
recognizes the
achievements of the rowers, coaches, and staff whose skill, discipline, and
dedication allowed them to reach such heights and continue the outstanding
legacy of the University of Washington Crew program.
