113 HRES 236 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives on fully spending the receipts of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund on United States ports and harbors each year, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-05-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 236
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 23, 2013
Ms. Hahn
(for
herself,
Mr. Poe of Texas
, and
Ms. Brown of Florida
) submitted the
following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of
Representatives on fully spending the receipts of the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund on United States ports and harbors each year, and for other
purposes.
Whereas ports and harbors play a vital role in the United
States economy;
Whereas ports move 2.3 billion tons of cargo a year in the
United States;
Whereas the United States assesses a harbor maintenance
tax of approximately $1.6 billion a year on goods imported through the Nation’s
ports for the express purpose of keeping United States ports strong;
Whereas only a fraction of the harbor maintenance tax has
been spent on maintaining the Nation’s harbors;
Whereas the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund has built a
surplus of over $8 billion, even as United States ports and harbors are
egregiously undermaintained and underdredged, reducing the Nation’s
competitiveness in the world and increasing costs for businesses and consumers;
and
Whereas the failure to spend the receipts of the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund to keep the Nation’s ports and harbors strong breaks a
trust with the people of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commits itself to
fully spending the receipts of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund on United
States ports and harbors each year;
(2)
affirms that the
surplus in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund should be spent down to zero on
the Nation’s ports and harbors as soon as possible; and
(3)
urges United
States ports and the Corps of Engineers to make all necessary preparations for
the expansion and acceleration of port and harbor dredging to be made possible
by 100 percent use of the receipts of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund.
