Whereas Article V of the Constitution of the United States states that
The Congress … on the Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments
to the Constitution;
Whereas congressional and State records of plenary applications for amendments on any subject and applications for the single subject of Inflation-fighting Fiscal Responsibility Amendments compiled by the Article V Library counts Nevada’s
continuing
application, reported February 8, 1979, in the Congressional Record, as the 34th thus achieving the
two thirds
congressional mandate to call the Convention for proposing amendments; congressional records reported 39 applications by the end of 1979, 40 in 1983, and 42 total applications over time;
Whereas Alexander Hamilton in Federalist 85 stated that
The Congress
shall call a Convention
. Nothing in this particular is left to the discretion of that body
;
Whereas beginning in 1979, when Congress appears to have failed in its constitutional duty to count applications and call a
Convention for proposing Amendments
, the Nation’s debt has increased to more than $31 trillion from $860 billion, while the value of the dollar has declined by over 75 percent;
Whereas the Constitution was ratified by Convention delegates
chosen in each State by the People thereof
, and the 21st Amendment, repealing Prohibition, was ratified in 1933 by a vote of the people for Yes-pledged delegates in 38 of 39 State Conventions; and
Whereas the Supreme Court’s unanimous opinion in Chiafalo v. Washington stated:
electors . . . have no ground for reversing the vote of millions of its citizens. That direction accords with the Constitution—as well as with the trust of the Nation that here, We the People rule.
: Now, therefore, be it
That
1.
Call for Article V Convention of States
(a)
In general
(1)
Call for convention; timing
As provided in Article V of the Constitution of the United States, and except as provided in paragraph (2), Congress hereby calls a Convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution of the United States for a date and place to be determined on calling the Convention.
(2)
Exception
Paragraph (1) does not apply if, prior to the expiration of the 60-day period which begins on the date of the adoption of this concurrent resolution—
(A)
the House Clerk provides a written report stating there have never been unrescinded and
continuing
applications for a Convention to propose amendments from at least two-thirds (34) of the States on any national issues (plenary) plus the single issue of fiscal responsibility; and
(B)
the House Clerk includes in the report detailed findings for each State.
(b)
Ratification of amendments by states
Each proposed amendment at the Convention for proposing amendments called under this section shall be ratified by a vote of We the People in three-quarters (38) of the States via State Convention delegates who shall
have no ground for reversing the vote of millions of its citizens
(Chiafalo v. Washington).
2.
Transmission to administrator of general services
A copy of this concurrent resolution shall be transmitted to the Administrator of General Services for submission to the legislatures of the several States.
