SECTION 1. The Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered to perform the following-described functions without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:

(a) The authority vested in the President by section 111(3) of   (74 Stat. 792) to prescribe regulations defining the term "employee".

(b) The authority vested in the President by Title II of   to prescribe regulations, including the regulations referred to in sections 202, 203, and 221(4) (B) of that Act (governing, respectively, (1) certain waivers of recovery, (2) the payment of allowances and differentials authorized by Title II of the Act and certain other matters, and (3) travel expenses for dependents of certain employees).

(c) The authority vested in the President by section 22 of the Administrative Expenses Act of   (added by section 311(a) of  ), (1) to prescribe regulations governing the allotment to posts in foreign countries, for the purpose stated in that section, of funds available to the departments for administrative expenses, and (2) to designate senior officials of this Government in foreign countries.

(d) The authority vested in the President by section 901 of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.  ), to prescribe regulations governing allowances in order to provide for the proper representation of   by officers or employees of  .

(e) The authority vested in the President by other provisions of law (including section 235(a) (2) of title 38 of the United States Code) to prescribe regulations governing representation allowances similar to those authorized by section 901 of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended.

(f) The authority vested in the President by section 853 of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.  ), to establish from time to time a list of places which by reason of climatic or other extreme conditions are to be classed as unhealthful posts, and to cancel the designation of any place as unhealthful. Each place designated as unhealthful by the Secretary hereunder shall be so designated as of  , or as of a later date to be fixed by the Secretary.

 . 2. Executive  .   of  , headed "Providing for the performance of certain functions vested in or subject to the approval of the President," as amended, is hereby further amended as follows:

(1) By adding at the end of section 1 the following new subsections (s), (t), and (u):

"(s) The authority vested in the President by section 1(e) of the Administrative Expenses Act of   (added by section 301(c) of  ), and by section 301(d) of  , to prescribe the regulations (relating to storage expenses and other matters) provided for in those sections.

"(t) The authority vested in the President by section 1(f) of the Administrative Expenses Act of   (added by section 321 of  ) to prescribe regulations governing transportation of the privately owned motor vehicle of an employee assigned to a post of duty outside the continental   on other than temporary duty orders.

"(u) That part of the functions vested in the President by section 7(a) of   (73 Stat. 216; 5 U.S.C. 2355(a)) which consists of authority to prescribe regulations relating to storage (including packing, drayage, unpacking, and transportation to and from storage) of household effects and personal possessions."

(2) By adding at the end of section 2 the following new subsection (e):

"(e) The authority vested in the President by section 203(f) of the   and Sick Leave Act of  , as amended (65 Stat. 680; 74 Stat. 799-800; 5 U.S.C. 2062(f)), to prescribe regulations governing the granting of leave of absence as therein described."

 . 3. That portion of section 2 of Executive Order No.   of  , which precedes the proviso thereof, is hereby amended to read as follows:

" . 2. In addition to rules and regulations, pertaining to allowances and benefits, otherwise applicable to personnel assigned abroad under Title VI of the Act of  , there shall be applicable to the personnel rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of   in pursuance of (1) so much of the authority vested in the President by Title II of  , or by any amendment thereof, as relates to quarters allowances or cost-of-living allowances, and (2) so much of the authority vested in the President and the Secretary of   by   of  , or by any amendment thereof, as relates to allowances and benefits under the said Title IX:"

 . 4. (a) Section 2 of Executive Order No. 10853 of  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

" . 2. The Secretary of   is hereby authorized and directed to exercise the following-described statutory powers of the President:

"(a) That part of the functions vested in the President by section 7(a) of   (73 Stat. 216; 5 U.S.C. 2355(a)) which consists of authority to prescribe regulations relating to quarters and quarters allowance.

"(b) The authority vested in the President by section 8(a) (1) of   and   Personnel Practices Act (73 Stat. 216; 5 U.S.C. 2356(a) (1)) to prescribe regulations relating to cost-of-living allowances.

"(c) The authority vested in the President by section 235 (a) of title 38 of the United States Code to prescribe rules and regulations with respect to allowances and benefits similar to those provided for in section 941 of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.  )."

(b) The reference in section 1 of Executive Order No. 10853 of  , to the regulations contained in Executive Order No.   of  , shall be deemed to include a reference to the corresponding regulations prescribed in pursuance of the provisions of this order.

 . 5. (a) The following-described Executive order and parts thereof are hereby revoked, subject to the provisions of section 5 (b) of this order:

1. Parts I, III, IV, and V of Executive Order No.   of  .

2. Executive  .   of  .

3. Executive  . 10085 of  .

4. Executive  . 10100 of  .

5. Executive  .  .

6. Executive  .  .

7. Executive  .   of  .

8. Executive  .   of  .

9. Executive  .  .

10. Executive  .   of  .

11. Section 1 and, to the extent that it pertains to Executive Order No.  , section 3 of Executive Order No.   of  .

(b) Existing rules and regulations prescribed in or pursuant to the   order provisions revoked by section 5(a) of this order, other existing rules and regulations pertaining to allowances, differentials, and other benefits corresponding to those authorized by the provisions of law referred to in this order, and actions heretofore taken in pursuance of any thereof, shall remain in effect until hereafter superseded in pursuance of the provisions of this order.

 . 6. This order, and such of the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and   thereunder as the Secretary, Director, and   shall, respectively, determine, shall be published in  .
