SECTION 1. There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  "). The   shall be composed of the Chairman of  , who shall serve as Chairman; and a representative of each of the following agencies, to be designated by the head of such agency— ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  ; and a representative to be designated by the head of each other Federal agency the President may from time to time request to participate in the activities of the  .

 . 2. The   shall:

(a) Examine and study the operation of Federal procurement, stockpiling, commodity price support, rate regulation, subsidy and similar programs and activities as to their effect upon the level and trends of prices and costs;

(b) Recommend to the agencies involved administrative actions, procedures, and policies to assure that existing programs and activities are, insofar as practicable under existing law and with due regard to national security requirements, being carried out in the light of the need for reasonable stability of the price level, and in the light of other national economic objectives;

(c) Advise the President periodically as to

(i) the effect of Federal programs and activities within the scope of this order upon the level and trends of prices and costs; and

(ii) its recommendations for improving administrative actions, procedures, and policies under which programs and activities are being conducted, in order to carry out more effectively the policy recited in this order.

 . 3. The heads of all   departments and agencies engaged in procurement, stockpiling, commodity price support, rate regulation, subsidy and similar programs which directly affect prices and costs shall reexamine their programs in the light of the need for reasonable stability of the price level, and shall take such administrative actions or recommend such changes in legislation as are deemed desirable after such review.

 . 4. The heads of all departments and agencies referred to in section 3 shall cooperate to the fullest possible extent with the  .

 . 5. The agencies designated in section 1 of this order shall, as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating the provisions of this order, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with section 214 of the act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include detailing employees to the  , one of whom may serve as its executive officer, to perform such functions consistent with the purpose of this order as the   may assign to them.
