By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 8 (k) of   of   Income and Franchise Tax Act of  , as added by section 11 of   Revenue Act of  , approved   (70 Stat. 77), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the agreement to be entered into between the Secretary of the   and the Commissioners of  , pursuant to the provisions of the said section 8 (k) of   of   Income and Franchise Tax Act of  , with respect to the withholding of   income taxes from the compensation of employees of  .

1. The said agreement shall be entered into by the Secretary of the   with the Commissioners of   within   of the receipt of a request therefor by the Secretary from the Commissioners: Provided, That such agreement shall be consistent with the provisions of the said   Franchise Tax Act of  , as amended, and of rules and regulations issued thereunder, and shall be subject to any amendment of any such provisions, including amendments occurring after the effective date of such agreement.

2. Such agreement (a) shall provide that the head of each agency of   shall comply with the requirements of   Income and Franchise Tax Act of  , as amended, with respect to employees of such agency who are subject to income taxes imposed by such act and whose regular place of employment is within  , (b) shall specify when the withholding of taxes shall commence, and (c) shall provide for procedures for the withholding, the filing of the returns, and the payment of the tax to   which conform, so far as practicable, to the usual fiscal practices of agencies of  .

3. Such agreement shall not apply with respect to compensation for service as a member of the armed forces of  , or with respect to compensation of an employee who does not have a place of abode, or does not reside or is not domiciled, within   at the time tax is required to be withheld, and shall not require collection by agencies of   of delinquent tax liabilities of federal employees.

4. Nothing in this order, or in the rules or regulations issued thereunder, or in the agreement entered into pursuant thereto, shall be construed as giving consent to the application of any provision of law which has the effect of imposing more burdensome requirements upon   than it imposes upon other employers, or which has the effect of subjecting   or any of its officers or employees to any penalty or liability.

5. The head of each agency shall designate, or provide for the designation of, the officers or employees whose duty it shall be to withhold taxes, file required returns, and direct payment of such taxes withheld, in accordance with the terms of the agreement entered into between the Secretary of the   and the Commissioners of  .

6. As used in this order—

(a) The term "agency" includes each department, commission, authority, administration, board, or other independent establishment of  , including any wholly-owned instrumentality of  , and each unit of the legislative branch of  , but such term does not include governments of the possessions or units of the judicial branch of  .

(b) The term "armed forces of  " includes all regular and reserve components of the  , the  ,  ,  , and  .

(c) The term "employees" as applied to employees of   includes officers and other individuals appointed by a federal officer and engaged in the performance of federal functions in an agency as defined in paragraph (a) above, under authority of an act of   or an   order, who in the performance of their duties are supervised and directed by a federal officer, but the term does not include retired personnel, pensioners, annuitants, or similar beneficiaries of  , whether their status is civilian or in the armed forces of  , who are not performing active service, or persons receiving remuneration for services on a contract-fee basis. The term shall include an officer of a corporation, but shall not include any elective officer of   or any officer or employee in the legislative branch of   whose compensation is paid by the Secretary of the   or the   of  , or any officer of the executive branch of the   whose appointment to the office held by him was by the President of   and subject to confirmation by   and whose tenure of office is at the pleasure of the President of  , unless such officer of the executive branch is domiciled within   on   of the taxable year.

(d) The term "regular place of federal employment" means the place where an employee actually performs his services, irrespective of his residence, except when such services are performed in a travel or temporary-duty status, in which case the "regular place of federal employment" means the place to which the employee will normally be expected to proceed for the purpose of performing further services in connection with his federal employment on the termination of travel or temporary-duty status.

I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the   authority to prescribe such rules and regulations not inconsistent herewith as may be necessary to further effectuate the provisions of section 8 (k) of   of   Income and Franchise Tax Act of  , as amended, or of this order.
