 . 401.  . The Secretary of   is hereby authorized and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 443 of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended, to establish, under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, rates of salary differential, not exceeding 25 per centum of basic salary, for   officers,   officers, and   staff officers and employees permanently or temporarily assigned to posts involving extraordinarily difficult living conditions, excessive physical hardship, or notably unhealthful conditions, which posts shall be known as "Foreign Service Differential Posts",

3. Section 402 of the said Executive Order No.  , as amended, and section 403 of that order are hereby revoked: Provided, that existing rules and regulations pertaining to the payment of salary differentials to   staff officers and employees serving at designated Foreign Service Differential Posts shall remain in effect until superseded by action taken pursuant to this order.

4. Section 503 of the said Executive Order No.  , as amended is hereby amended to read as follows:

 . 503. Designation and  .

The Secretary of   is hereby authorized and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 853 of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended, to establish from time to time a list of places which by reason of climatic or other extreme conditions are to be classed as unhealthful posts. The Secretary is also authorized and empowered to cancel the designation of any such places as unhealthful. Each place designated as unhealthful by the Secretary hereunder shall be so designated as of  , or as of a later date to be fixed by the Secretary. The provisions of sections 501 and 502 of this Executive Order shall be subject to the authority delegated to the Secretary of   by this section.

5. Paragraph 1 (a) of Executive Order No.   of  , authorizing the Secretary of   to exercise certain powers of the President with respect to the granting of allowances and allotments to Government personnel on foreign duty, is hereby amended to read as follows:

(a) The authority vested in the President by section 901 of the Foreign Service Act of   (60 Stat.  ; 22 U.S.C.  ), as amended by section 10 of the Foreign Service Act Amendments of 1955 (69 Stat. 27), to prescribe regulations governing the granting of (1) allowances, wherever Government-owned or rented quarters are not available, for living quarters, heat, light, fuel, gas, and electricity, including allowances for the cost of lodging at temporary quarters, authorized by paragraph (1) of the said section; (2) cost-of-living allowances authorized by paragraph (2) of the said section, as amended; and (3) allowances in order to provide for the proper representation of   by officers and employees of  , authorized by paragraph (3) of the said section.

This order shall be effective as of  .
