PART I. PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL ON YOUTH FITNESS

SECTION 1. There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), which shall be composed of the Vice President of  , who shall be the Chairman of the  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , and  .

 . 2. The   shall promote the efficacy of existing programs and the launching of additional programs which will enhance the fitness of   youth. The   shall seek to coordinate, stimulate, and improve the functions of Federal agencies with respect to the fitness of youth.

 . 3. Each executive department the head of which is referred to in section 1 of this order shall, as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating the provisions of this order, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with section 214 of the act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691) . Such assistance may include detailing employees to the  , one of whom may serve as its executive officer, to perform such functions consistent with the purposes of this order as the   may assign to them.

PART II. PRESIDENT'S   . 4. There is hereby established the President's   on   (hereinafter referred to as  ) . The   shall be composed of such members as the President may designate, and each member shall serve at the pleasure of the President. A member of the   shall be designated by the President as the chairman of  .

 . 5. The   shall consider and evaluate existing and prospective governmental and private measures conducive to the achievement of a happier, healthier, and more completely fit   youth.

PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 . 6. The   shall be the President's official link with  . The   shall meet with   at least once a year for the purpose of determining the progress made with respect to the problems relating to the fitness of   youth, and, taking into account the results of such meetings and other factors, shall prepare and present reports on this subject to the President.

 . 7. Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any executive department or other agency of the   or any officer thereof.
