PART I—SUCCESSION TO THE POSITION OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of  , the following-designated officers, in  , shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of   in the order indicated:

1. Deputy Secretary of  .

2. Secretary of the  .

3. Secretary of the  .

4. Secretary of  .

5. Director of  .

6. Assistant Secretaries of Defense and    , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

7. Under Secretaries of the  ,  , and  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

8. Assistant Secretaries of the  ,  , and  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

Precedence within a particular group between or among two or more officers having the same date of appointment shall be as determined by the Secretary of   at the time of appointment.

PART II—SUCCESSION TO THE POSITION OF SECRETARY OF  In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of the  , the following-designated officers shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of the   in the order indicated:

1. Under Secretary of the  .

2. Assistant Secretaries of the  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

3. Chief of Staff,  .

4. Vice Chief of Staff,  .

5.  ,  .

PART III—SUCCESSION TO THE POSITION OF SECRETARY OF THE  

In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of the  , the following-designated officers shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of the   in the order indicated:

1. Under Secretary of the  .

2. Assistant Secretaries of the  , in the order prescribed by the Secretary of the  , or if no order is prescribed by the Secretary, then in the order in which they have taken office as Assistant Secretaries.

3. Chief of  .

4. Vice Chief of Naval Operations.

PART IV—SUCCESSION TO THE POSITION OF SECRETARY OF   the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of  , the following-designated officers shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of   in the order indicated:

1. Under Secretary of  .

2. Assistant Secretaries of  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

3. Chief of Staff,  .

4. Vice Chief of Staff,  .

5. The Senior Deputy Chief of Staff who is not absent or disabled.

6. Commander,  .

PART V-VARIATIONS IN THE ORDER OF SUCCESSION

Without regard to any other part of this order, except Part VI, the President, or the person acting as President under section 19 of title 3 of the United States Code, may, in the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of  , appoint any officer designated in Part I of this order to succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of  ; and may, in the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of a military department, appoint any officer designated in the part of this order which relates to the order of succession in the department concerned to succeed to the position of, and act as, the Secretary of that department.

PART VI-TEMPORARY NATURE OF SUCCESSION

Succession to office pursuant to this order shall be on a temporary or interim basis and shall not have the effect of vacating the statutory position held by the successor.

PART VII-REVOCATION OF PRIOR EXECUTIVE ORDERS

Executive Order No.   of  , and Executive Order No. 10669 of  , are hereby revoked.
