SECTION 1. Executive  .   of  , entitled "Providing for the Performance of Certain Functions Vested in or   to the Approval of the President", as amended, is hereby further amended by adding at the end of section 1 thereof new paragraphs (p), (q), and (r), reading as follows:

"(p) The authority vested in the President by section 45(a) of  , approved   (73 Stat. 152), (1) to determine that any function performed by   in   has been terminated or curtailed by   and that performance of such function or substantially the same function has been or will be assumed by  , and (2) until  , in his discretion, to transfer and convey to  , without reimbursement, any property or interest in property, real or personal, situated in   and as otherwise described in section 45(a): Provided, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to affect the authority delegated to the Secretary of the   by Executive Order No.   of  , with respect to the transfer and conveyance of property described in section 2 of that order.

"(q) The authority vested in the President by section 5(e) of the act of  , providing for the admission of   into the Union, 73 Stat. 6, (1) to receive the reports required by the provisions of that section, and (2) to determine that certain land or property is no longer needed by  .

"(r) The authority vested in the President by section 40 of  , approved   (74 Stat. 422), to prescribe procedures to assure that reports submitted pursuant to section 5(e) of the act of  , 73 Stat. 6, shall be prepared in accordance with uniform policies and coordinated within the executive branch of the Government: Provided, that such procedures shall be published in  ."

 . 2. Without prejudice to any action heretofore taken pursuant thereto, the following-described letters of the President, which authorized certain officers to exercise, to the extent therein described, the authority conferred upon the President by section 45(a) of   (73 Stat. 152) are hereby superseded: (1) two letters to the Secretary of the   dated  , and  , respectively, (2) letter to the Administrator,  , dated  , and (3) letter to the Attorney General dated  .
