By virtue of the authority vested in me by   (62 Stat. 604), as amended, I hereby prescribe the following amendments of   prescribed by Executive Orders No.   of September 17, 1948, No.   of  , No. 10292 of  , No.   of  , No.   of  , No.   of  , and No. 10714 of June 13,  , and constituting portions of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:

1. Section 1602.13 of Part  ,  , is revoked.

2. (a) Paragraph (b) of § 1622.13 of Part  ,   and Principles, is amended by striking out the word "ur" at the end of subparagraph (3), by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph (4) and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon and the word "or", and by adding a new subparagraph (5) to read as follows:

"(5) Periods of active duty performed by medical, dental, or allied specialists in student programs prior to receipt of the appropriate professional degree or in intern training."

(b) Paragraph (b) of § 1622.40 of Part   is amended by striking out the word "or" at the end of subparagraph (3), by striking out the period at the end of sub-paragraph (4) and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon and the word "or", and by adding a new subparagraph (5) to read as follows:

"(5) Periods of active duty performed by medical, dental, or allied specialists in student programs prior to receipt of the appropriate professional degree or in intern training."

(c) Section 1622.44 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

"§ 1622.44 Class 1V-F: Physically, mentally, or morally unfit. (a) In Class IV-F shall be placed any registrant (1) who is found to be physically or mentally unfit for any service in   other than a registrant who has been separated from   because of physical or mental disability by an honorable discharge or a discharge under honorable conditions or an equivalent type of release from service and who is eligible for Class IV-A under the provisions of § 1622.40; (2) who, under the procedures and standards prescribed by the Secretary of  , is found to be morally unacceptable for any service in  ; (3) who has been convicted of a criminal offense which may be punished by death or by imprisonment for a term exceeding   and who is not eligible for classification into a class available for service; or (4) who has been separated from   by discharge other than an honorable discharge or a discharge under honorable conditions, or an equivalent type of release from service, and for whom the local board has not received a statement from   that the registrant is morally acceptable notwithstanding such discharge or separation.

"(b) In Class IV-F shall be placed any registrant in the medical, dental, and allied specialist categories who has applied for an appointment as a   officer in one of   in any of such categories and has been rejected for such appointment on the sole ground of a physical disqualification."

3. (a) Section 1631.4 of Part  ,   and Calls, is amended to read as follows:

"§ 1631.4 Calls by the Secretary of  . The Secretary of   may from time to time place with the Director of   a call or requisition for a specified number of men required for induction into  .

The Secretary of   may also from time to time place with the Director of   a call or requisition for a specified number of men in any medical, dental, or allied specialist category required for induction into  . The Secretary of   shall present such calls or requisitions to the Director of   not   prior to the period during which the delivery and induction of such men are to be accomplished."

(b) Section 1631.5 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

"§ 1631.5 Calls by the Director of Selective Service. (a) The Director of   shall, upon receipt of a call or requisition from the Secretary of   for a specified number of men to be inducted into  , allocate such call or requisition among the several  . The Director of Selective Service in allocating such call may provide for the selection of persons by age group or groups whenever he deems such action is necessary in order that persons in older age groups shall, on a nation-wide basis, be selected and delivered for induction before persons in younger age groups.

"(b) Upon receipt of a call or requisition from the Secretary of   for a specified number of men in a medical, dental, or allied specialist category to be inducted into  , the Director of   shall allocate such call or requisition among the several  .

"(c) The Director of   shall issue a Notice of Call on State (SSS Form No. 200) to the   Director of   of each   concerned (1) for the number of men allocated to each  , or (2) for the number of men in the medical, dental, or allied specialist category allocated to each  . The Director of   shall send two copies of each such Notice of Call on State (SSS Form No. 200) to the Secretary of  ."

(c) Section 1631.6 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

"§ 1631.6 Calls by   Director of  . The   Director of  , upon receiving a Notice of Call on State (SSS Form No. 200) from the Director of   shall (a) allocate to the local boards concerned within his   (1) the number of men which his   is called upon to furnish for service in  , or (2) the number of men in the medical, dental, or allied specialist category which his   is called upon to furnish for service in  , and (b) issue to each local board concerned a Notice of Call on Local Board (SSS Form No. 201) directing the local board to select and deliver for induction (1) the number of men allocated to the local board, or (2) the number of men in the medical, dental, or allied specialist category allocated to the local board. The   Director of   shall send a copy of each Notice of Call on Local Board (SSS Form No. 201) to the commanding officer of the joint examining and induction station to which the selected men are directed to report for induction."

(d) (1) Paragraph (a) of § 1631.7 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

"(a) Each local board, upon receiving a Notice of Call on Local Board (SW Form No. 201) from the   Director of   (1) for a specified number of men to be delivered for induction, or (2) for a specified number of men in a medical, dental, or allied specialist category to be delivered for induction, shall select and order to report for induction the number of men required to fill the call from among its registrants who have been classified in Class I-A and Class I-A-0 and have been found acceptable for service in   and to whom the local board has mailed a   (DD Form No. 62)   before the date fixed for induction: Provided, That a registrant classified in Class I-A or Class I-A-O who is a delinquent may be selected and ordered to report for induction to fill an induction call notwithstanding the fact that he has not been found acceptable for service in   and has not been mailed a   (DD Form No.  ): And provided further, That a registrant classified in Class I-A or Class I-A-O who has volunteered for induction may, if an appeal is not pending in his case and the period during which an appeal may be taken has expired, be selected and ordered to report for induction notwithstanding the fact that he has not been found acceptable for service in   and regardless of whether or not a   (DD Form No. 62) has been mailed to him. Such registrants, including those in a medical, dental, or allied specialist category, shall be selected and ordered to report for induction in the following order:

(1) Delinquents who have attained   in the order of their dates of birth with the oldest being selected first.

(2) Volunteers who have not attained   in the sequence in which they have volunteered for induction.

(3) Nonvolunteers who have attained   and have not attained   and who do not have a child or children with whom they maintain a bona fide family relationship in their homes, in the order of their dates of birth with the oldest being selected first.

(4) Nonvolunteers who have attained   and have not attained   and who have a child or children with whom they maintain a bona fide family relationship in their homes, in the order of their dates of birth with the oldest being selected first.

(5) Nonvolunteers who have attained   in the order of their dates of birth with the youngest being selected first.

(6) Nonvolunteers who have attained   and   and who have not attained   in the order of their dates of birth with the oldest being selected first.

In selecting registrants in the order of their dates of birth, if two or more registrants have the same date of birth they shall, as among themselves, be selected in alphabetical order."

(2) Paragraph (b) of § 1631.7 is re-designated as paragraph (c) and a new paragraph (b) is added to § 1631.7 to read as follows:

"(b) The term 'child' as used in this section shall include a legitimate or an illegitimate child from the date of its conception, a child legally adopted, a stepchild, a foster child, and a person who is supported in good faith by the registrant in a relationship similar to that of parent and child but shall not include any person   or over unless he is physically or mentally handicapped."

4. Section 1641.7 of Part  ,  , is amended to read as follows:

"§ 1641.7 Reporting by registrants of their current status. (a) It shall be the duty of every classified registrant to keep his local board currently informed of his occupational, marital, family, dependency, and military status, of his physical condition, of his home address, and of his receipt of any professional degree in a medical, dental, or allied specialist category. Every classified registrant shall, within   after it occurs, report to his local board in writing every change in such status and in his physical condition and home address and his receipt of any such professional degree.

" (b) A classified registrant shall submit to his local board in writing all information which the local board may at any time request from him concerning his occupational, marital, family, dependency, or military status or his physical condition or his receipt of a professional degree. The registrant shall submit such information to his local board within   after the date on which the local board mails him a request therefor, or within such longer period as may be fixed by the local board."

5. Part  , Registration, Classification,  , Selection, and   in Medical,  , and  , is revoked.
