SECTION 1. (a)   is hereby designated and empowered to perform the following described functions:

(1) To receive all applications for permits for the construction, operation, maintenance, or connection, at the borders of  , of facilities for the transmission of electric energy between   and a foreign country.

(2) To receive all applications for permits for the construction, operation, maintenance, or connection, at the borders of  , of facilities for the exportation or importation of natural gas to or from a foreign country.

(3) Upon finding the issuance of the permit to be consistent with the public interest, and, after obtaining the favorable recommendations of the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   thereon, to issue to the applicant, as appropriate, a permit for such construction, operation, maintenance, or connection. The   shall have the power to attach to the Issuance of the permit and to the exercise of the rights granted thereunder such conditions as the public interest may in its judgment require.

(b) In any case wherein  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   cannot agree as to whether or not a permit should be issued, the   shall submit to the President for approval or disapproval the application for a permit with the respective views of the  , the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  .

 . 2. The Chairman or Acting Chairman of   is hereby designated and empowered to sign any permits issued by   pursuant to section 1 (a) (3) hereof.

  3.   is authorized to issue such rules and regulations, and to prescribe such procedures, as it may from time to time deem necessary or desirable for the exercise of the authority delegated to it by this order.

 . 4. All Presidential Permits heretofore issued pursuant to Executive Order No. 8202 of  , and in force at the time of the issuance of this order, and all permits issued hereunder, shall remain in full force and effect until modified or revoked by the President or by  .

SEC 5. Executive  . 8202 of  , is hereby revoked.
