113 HRES 207 IH: Recognizing the 50th anniversary of the first ascent of Mt. Everest by United States citizens.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-05-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 207
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 8, 2013
Mr. Kilmer
(for
himself,
Mr. Heck of Washington
,
Mr. Larsen of Washington
,
Ms. DelBene
,
Mr. McDermott
,
Mr. Reichert
, and
Mr. Smith of Washington
) submitted the
following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the 50th anniversary of the
first ascent of Mt. Everest by United States citizens.
Whereas James W. Whittaker stood on top of Mt. Everest at
1:00 p.m. on May 1, 1963, with Sherpa Nawang Gombu, and planted the American
flag for the first time on the highest point of earth;
Whereas Mr. Whittaker was a part of a team led by Swiss
Mountaineer Norman Dyhrenfurth, that consisted of 19 United States
mountaineers, scientists, writers, and photographers, who were assisted by
dozens of Sherpas and hundreds of porters, became the first United States team
to reach the peak of Mt. Everest;
Whereas Mr. Whittaker and the team stood as heroes and
inspired the country during a time when the Nation was consumed with the
ongoing struggles of the Cold War, the Cuban Missile Crisis, high unemployment,
and the looming war in Vietnam;
Whereas upon returning, the team was recognized at a
reception in the White House Rose Garden, where President John F. Kennedy
presented each with the Hubbard Medal of the National Geographic
Society;
Whereas Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., has called Mr. Whittaker’s
story
a riveting saga of high adventure by one of history’s greatest
climbers
;
Whereas Mr. Whittaker was the first full-time employee of
one of the country’s largest outdoor retailers, Recreational Equipment, Inc.,
and went on to retire as its President and Chief Executive Officer after 25
years with the company;
Whereas throughout his life, Mr. Whittaker has lived his
life to the fullest, leading numerous, high-profile climbing expeditions,
including the first ascent of Mt. Kennedy, which was completed with Senator
Robert F. Kennedy in the Canadian Yukon in 1965;
Whereas Mr. Whittaker also led the first ascent by a
United States citizen of K2 in 1978, and the successful Mt. Everest
International Peace Climb in 1990; and
Whereas Mr. Whittaker is the author of the best-selling,
award-winning memoir,
A Life on the Edge: Memoirs of Everest and
Beyond
and has shared his story in person as a motivational speaker:
Now, therefore, be it
That the House of
Representatives—
(1)
congratulates James W. Whittaker and his
fellow climbers on the 50th anniversary of the first ascent of Mt. Everest by
United States citizens;
(2)
honors Mr.
Whittaker for his leadership in the outdoor recreation community; and
(3)
recognizes the
extraordinary feat Mr. Whittaker accomplished 50 years ago and how his story
has inspired countless people in the Northwest and beyond.
