113 HRES 149 IH: Expressing support for designation of April as Parkinson’s Awareness Month.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-04-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 149
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 10, 2013
Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New
York
(for herself,
Mr. King of New
York
, and
Mr. Van Hollen
)
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and
Commerce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for designation of April
as Parkinson’s Awareness Month.
Whereas Parkinson’s disease is a chronic, progressive,
neurological disease and is the second most common neurological disease in the
United States;
Whereas there is inadequate comprehensive data on the
incidence and prevalence of Parkinson’s disease;
Whereas it is estimated that the disease affects 500,000
to 1,500,000 people in the United States and the prevalence will more than
double by 2040;
Whereas there are millions of people in the United States
who are caregivers, family members, and friends greatly impacted by Parkinson’s
disease every day;
Whereas it is estimated that the economic burden of
Parkinson’s disease is $14,400,000,000 including indirect costs to patients and
family members of $6,300,000,000 each year;
Whereas although research suggests the cause of
Parkinson’s disease is a combination of genetic and environmental factors, the
exact cause and progression of the disease is still unknown;
Whereas there is no objective test or biomarker for
Parkinson’s disease, and the rate of misdiagnosis can be high;
Whereas the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease vary from
person to person and include tremors, slowness of movement, difficulty with
balance, swallowing, chewing, speaking, rigidity, cognitive impairment,
dementia, mood disorders (such as depression and anxiety) constipation, skin
problems, and sleep difficulties;
Whereas there is no cure, therapy, or drug to slow or halt
the progression of Parkinson’s disease;
Whereas medications mask some symptoms of Parkinson’s
disease for a limited amount of time each day, often with dose-limiting side
effects, and ultimately lose their effectiveness, leaving the person unable to
move, speak, or swallow;
Whereas increased education and research are needed to
find more effective treatments with fewer side effects and, ultimately, an
effective treatment or cure for Parkinson’s disease; and
Whereas April would be an appropriate month to designate
as Parkinson’s Awareness Month: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of
Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of Parkinson’s
Awareness Month;
(2)
supports the goals
and ideals of Parkinson’s Awareness Month;
(3)
continues to
support research to find better treatments, and eventually, a cure for
Parkinson’s disease;
(4)
recognizes the
people living with Parkinson’s who participate in vital clinical trials to
advance the knowledge of the disease; and
(5)
commends the
dedication of State, local, regional, and national organizations, volunteers,
researchers, and millions of people in the United States working to improve the
quality of life of persons living with Parkinson’s disease and their
families.
