113 HRES 518 IH: Expressing support for designation of March 2014 as “Multiple System Atrophy Awareness Month” to increase public awareness of this progressive neurodegenerative disorder that affects the autonomic functions of the body.
U.S. House of Representatives
2014-03-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 518
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 13, 2014
Mr. Ellison
(for himself,
Mr. Grijalva
,
Ms. McCollum
, and
Mr. Nolan
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for designation of March 2014 as
Multiple System Atrophy Awareness Month
to increase public awareness of this progressive neurodegenerative disorder that affects the
autonomic functions of the body.
Whereas Multiple System Atrophy is a fatal neurological disease diagnosed in approximately 15,000
patients in the United States;
Whereas as many as 35,000 more patients in the United States with Multiple System Atrophy are
misdiagnosed with other more recognizable neurodegenerative disorders;
Whereas patients with Multiple System Atrophy lose the ability to walk, talk, chew, swallow, and
even breathe over the course of a few years;
Whereas the incidence of Multiple System Atrophy in the United States has increased in recent
years;
Whereas no specific risk factors or causes of Multiple System Atrophy have been identified;
Whereas there is currently no cure for Multiple System Atrophy;
Whereas the lack of awareness about Multiple System Atrophy has hindered research and the ability
of researchers to obtain funding for their work;
Whereas public support and greater awareness of the need for research funding can aid in the
discovery of the cause of and a cure for Multiple System Atrophy; and
Whereas March 2014 would be an appropriate month to designate as
Multiple System Atrophy Awareness Month
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives supports the designation of
Multiple System Atrophy Awareness Month
to increase public awareness of this progressive neurodegenerative disorder that affects the
autonomic functions of the body.
