113 HRES 233 IH: Honoring the Good Friday Agreement (the Belfast Agreement), on the 15th anniversary of its ratification, as the framework for lasting peace in Northern Ireland.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-05-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 233
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 22, 2013
Mr. Crowley
(for
himself,
Mr. Neal
, and
Mr. King of New York
) submitted the
following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign
Affairs
RESOLUTION
Honoring the Good Friday Agreement (the
Belfast Agreement), on the 15th anniversary of its ratification, as the
framework for lasting peace in Northern Ireland.
Whereas the Good Friday Agreement represented a landmark
breakthrough that provided Ireland with a political framework to address its
future;
Whereas the Good Friday Agreement acknowledged the right
of differing political traditions to pursue their goals of remaining part of
the United Kingdom or of Irish Unity;
Whereas the Good Friday Agreement demonstrated democratic
and peaceful means of resolving differences;
Whereas members of both political parties in the United
States came together to support the Good Friday Agreement; and
Whereas the Good Friday Agreement promotes religious
freedom, democracy, and human rights: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of
Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of the Good
Friday Agreement;
(2)
urges all
communities to continue to engage in the legal political process;
(3)
calls on the
Governments of the United Kingdom and Ireland to work together to achieve full
implementation of the Good Friday Agreement, including the creation of a Bill
of Rights for Northern Ireland; and
(4)
recognizes the
urgent and ongoing necessity of reconciliation, and urges the involvement of
the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and communities to work toward
genuine reconciliation.
