113 HRES 485 IH: Expressing support for ГўВҖВңNational One Love DayГўВҖВқ.
U.S. House of Representatives
2014-02-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 485
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 14, 2014
Mr. Ruppersberger
(for himself and
Mr. Sarbanes
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for
National One Love Day
.
Whereas the One Love Foundation was established to honor the memory of Yeardley Reynolds Love;
Whereas the mission of the One Love Foundation is to end relationship violence through education
and technology;
Whereas Yeardley Love of Baltimore, Maryland, was an exceptional person and lacrosse player, who
wore the number one, and was the tragic victim of relationship violence
while in college at the University of Virginia;
Whereas the vision of the One Love Foundation is to keep YeardleyГўВҖВҷs spirit alive by promoting
strength of character as the premise of all of the foundationГўВҖВҷs numerous
programs;
Whereas millions of children, women, and men are abused physically by family members and others
with whom they are intimate;
Whereas nearly 30 percent of all female homicide victims were killed by their husbands, former
husbands, or boyfriends;
Whereas May 3, National One Love Day, will be celebrated through awareness campaigns, social media
postings, representative clothing, hats, ribbons, buttons, and bracelets
to show support for the thousands of organizations, hundreds of thousands
of workers and millions of victims across the United States; and
Whereas the day will be marked as: One Day. One Mission. One Love: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of RepresentativesГўВҖВ”
(1)
supports
National One Love Day
;
(2)
focuses on heightening awareness and making new commitments to stop relationship violence in our
immediate circle of family, friends, neighbors, schools, and
organizations;
(3)
commends and supports the efforts of thousands of organizations and victims across the United
States to increase relationship violence awareness; and
(4)
seeks that every person speak to just one individual about what a healthy relationship is and help
that individual feel empowered.
