113 HRES 314 IH: Commending and supporting the United States delegation and the United States Deaf Sports Federation in their representation of the United States at the 2013 Summer Deaflympics in Sofia, Bulgaria.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-07-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 314
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 22, 2013
Mr. Langevin
(for
himself,
Mr. Yoder
,
Mr. Cicilline
,
Mr. Farr
,
Mr. Lewis
,
Mr.
Conyers
,
Mr. Nunes
,
Mr. King of New York
,
Mr. Cárdenas
,
Mr. Nadler
,
Mr. Moran
, and
Mr. Loebsack
) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform
RESOLUTION
Commending and supporting the United States
delegation and the United States Deaf Sports Federation in their representation
of the United States at the 2013 Summer Deaflympics in Sofia,
Bulgaria.
Whereas from July 26, 2013, through August 4, 2013, Sofia,
Bulgaria, will host the 2013 Summer Deaflympics;
Whereas the Deaflympics are the world's second oldest
multiple sports games after the Olympics;
Whereas the Summer Deaflympics have been held every 4
years since 1924 and the Winter Deaflympics since 1949;
Whereas the International Olympic Committee (IOC)
officially recognizes the International Committee of Sports for the Deaf (ICSD)
as the sole organization responsible for the administration of all sporting
events involving the deaf and hard of hearing;
Whereas USADSF is recognized by the International
Committee of Sports for the Deaf (ICSD) as the sole national association of
deaf sports in the United States;
Whereas USADSF’s mission is to support the United States
team athletes in achieving excellence in athletics and preserving the ideals of
the Deaflympics by fostering growth of identity and inspiring goodwill for all
deaf and hard of hearing United States citizens;
Whereas USADSF was established in 1945 and represents over
100,000 deaf and hard of hearing athletes in the United States in nearly 1,500
individual member organizations through national sports organizations, fosters
and regulates uniform rules of competition and provides social outlets for deaf
athletes and their friends, serves as a parent organization of national deaf
sports organizations, conducts annual deaf sports athletic competitions, and
assists in the participation of United States teams in international
competition;
Whereas USADSF is run by volunteers who give of their
time, talent, and resources for the love of the games and the athletes;
Whereas over 180 deaf and hard of hearing athletes and
coaches will train and travel to Sofia, Bulgaria, to represent the United
States in competition of 11 sports, including men's and women’s basketball,
women's volleyball, women's soccer, men's team handball, men’s and women’s
track, men’s and women’s swimming, men’s and women’s bowling, men’s and women’s
tennis, wrestling, taekwondo, and men’s and women’s cycling; and
Whereas USADSF has brought great pride and honor to the
United States in international athletic competition: Now, therefore, be
it
That the House of
Representatives—
(1)
commends the United States Deaf Sports
Federation for its efforts in sending athletes, coaches, and support staff to
the 2013 Summer Deaflympics in Sofia, Bulgaria;
(2)
congratulates all
the athletes, coaches, and support staff of the United States team on earning a
place to represent the United States at the 2013 Summer Deaflympics; and
(3)
wishes the United
States delegation great success at the 2013 Summer Deaflympic Games.
