113 HRES 703 IH: Establishing an academic competition in the field of robotics among students in Congressional districts.
U.S. House of Representatives
2014-07-31
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 703
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 31, 2014
Ms. Duckworth
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Establishing an academic competition in the field of robotics among students in Congressional
districts.
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Robotics Competition Resolution of 2014
.
2.
Findings
The House of Representatives finds as follows:
(1)
STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) fields and knowledge have been integral to
the development of civilization over the centuries.
(2)
The competitiveness of the United States in the field of robotics in particular is vital to a
strong, thriving economy in a world of continuous and rapid technological
advancements and needs.
(3)
Robots serve myriad functions that humans cannot, including reducing exposure to toxins and
increasing accuracy and speed on assembly lines, thereby reducing risk to
members of the military and first responders, among others.
(4)
Robotics technology research and development should be a priority of the United States, especially
in
encouraging students of all ages to pursue careers in robotics and other
STEM fields.
(5)
The robotics industry is positioned to fuel a broad array of next-generation products and
applications in fields as diverse as manufacturing, health-care, national
defense and security, agriculture, and transportation.
(6)
The global economy demands that the United States continue to lead the world in innovation,
creativity, and robotics-related advancements.
(7)
Bringing together Members of Congress and their younger constituents to participate in activities
that will result in a deeper appreciation for robotics will foster
enthusiasm for education in the sciences.
(8)
The support which students will gain through Congressional recognition of their work on
robotics-related projects will encourage them to pursue career paths in
robotics, continuing the leadership of the United States in robotics
technology development.
(9)
It is appropriate for the House of Representatives to institute a new and worthwhile competition to
encourage students to participate in robotics studies and research.
(10)
It would be appropriate to initially challenge students to develop robots that serve certain
functions in everyday life.
3.
Congressional competition in robotics
(a)
Establishment of competition
There is hereby established an academic competition in the field of robotics which shall be held
each year among students in each Congressional district.
(b)
Regulations
The competition under this resolution shall be carried out in accordance with such regulations as
may be prescribed by the Committee on House Administration, except that
the regulations shall permit the office of a Member to seek guidance from
outside experts in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics—for the purposes of establishing criteria for the selection of
competition judges and for the
judgment of competition submissions.
