Section 1

.

 

. The Act, known as   to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) Act of  , will make transformative investments to restore and advance our  's leadership in the research, development, and manufacturing of semiconductors. These investments will strengthen our  's manufacturing and industrial base; create well-paying, high-skilled jobs in construction, manufacturing, and maintenance; catalyze regional economic development throughout the country; bolster   technology leadership; and reduce our dependence on critical technologies from   and other vulnerable or overly concentrated foreign supply chains.

Meeting these objectives will require effective implementation of the Act by my Administration, in collaboration with  , local,  , and territorial governments; the private sector; institutions of higher education; workforce development organizations; labor unions and other worker organizations; and allied and partner countries.

 . 2

.

Implementation Priorities

. In implementing the Act, all agencies (as described in section 3502(1) of title  , United States Code, except for the agencies described in  ) of title  ) shall, as appropriate and to the extent consistent with law, prioritize:

(a) protecting taxpayer resources, including by ensuring strong compliance and accountability measures for funding recipients;

(b) meeting economic, sustainability, and national security needs, including by building domestic manufacturing capacity that reduces reliance on vulnerable or overly concentrated foreign production for both leading-edge and mature microelectronics;

(c) ensuring long-term leadership in the microelectronics sector, including by establishing a dynamic, collaborative network for microelectronics research and innovation to enable long-term   leadership in critical industries;

(d) catalyzing private-sector investment, including by reducing risk and maximizing large-scale private investment in production, breakthrough technologies, and worker and workforce development;

(e) generating benefits—such as well-paying, high-skilled union jobs and opportunities for startups; small businesses; and minority-owned, veteran-owned, and women-owned businesses—for a broad range of stakeholders and communities, including by investing in disadvantaged communities and by partnering with  , local,  , and territorial governments and with institutions of higher education; and

(f) strengthening and expanding regional manufacturing and innovation ecosystems, including by investing in suppliers, manufacturers, workforce development, basic and translational research, and related infrastructure and cybersecurity throughout the microelectronics supply chain, and by facilitating the expansion, creation, and coordination of semiconductor clusters.

 . 3

.

CHIPS Implementation Steering Council

. (a) There is established within   of the President the CHIPS Implementation Steering Council (Steering Council). The function of   is to coordinate policy development to ensure the effective implementation of the Act within the executive branch.

(b) The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for  , and the Director of   shall serve as   of  .

(c) In addition to  , the   shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Director of  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix) the Director of  ;

(x) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(xi) the Chair of  ;

(xii) the National Cyber Director;

(xiii) the Director of  ; and

( ) the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and offices as   may from time to time invite to participate.

(d)   may create and coordinate subgroups consisting of   members or their designees, as appropriate.

(e)   may consult with leaders from industry, labor unions and other worker organizations, institutions of higher education, research institutions, and civil society, as appropriate and consistent with law, to provide individual perspectives and advice to   on the effective implementation of the Act.

(f)   may consult with the President's  , as appropriate and consistent with law, to provide advice to  .

 . 4

.

Effective and   and Oversight of  

. The Director of   shall take appropriate actions to promote and monitor, with respect to execution of the Act, the effective and efficient stewardship and oversight of taxpayer resources, in collaboration with   and the heads of agencies responsible for implementing the Act.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
