Section 1

.

Policy

. In   since its enactment, the Affordable Care Act ( ) has reduced the number of uninsured   by more than 20 million, extended critical consumer protections to more than 100 million people, and strengthened and improved the  's healthcare system. At the same time, millions of people who are potentially eligible for coverage under the   or other laws remain uninsured, and obtaining insurance benefits is more difficult than necessary. For these reasons, it is the policy of my Administration to protect and strengthen   and the   and to make high-quality healthcare accessible and affordable for every  .

 . 2

.

Special Enrollment Period

. The coronavirus disease   (COVID-19) pandemic has triggered a historic public health and economic crisis. In  , as the   pandemic was spreading, the Secretary of   declared a public health emergency. In  , the President declared a national emergency. Although   has passed, the emergency continues—over 5 million   have contracted the disease in  , and thousands are dying  . Over 30 million   remain uninsured, preventing many from obtaining necessary health services and treatment. Black, Latino, and   persons are more likely to be uninsured, and communities of color have been especially hard hit by both the   pandemic and the economic downturn. In light of the exceptional circumstances caused by the ongoing   pandemic, the Secretary of   shall consider establishing a Special Enrollment Period for uninsured and under-insured   to seek coverage through  , pursuant to existing authorities, including sections   and   of title  , United States Code, and section 155.420(d)(9) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, and consistent with applicable law.

 . 3

.

 

. (a) The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of all other executive departments and agencies with authorities and responsibilities related to   and the   (collectively, heads of agencies) shall, as soon as practicable, review all existing regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, and any other similar agency actions (collectively, agency actions) to determine whether such agency actions are inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order. As part of this review, the heads of agencies shall examine the following:

(i) policies or practices that may undermine protections for people with pre-existing conditions, including complications related to  , under the  ;

(ii) demonstrations and waivers, as well as demonstration and waiver policies, that may reduce coverage under or otherwise undermine   or the  ;

(iii) policies or practices that may undermine   or the individual, small group, or large group markets for health insurance in  ;

(iv) policies or practices that may present unnecessary barriers to individuals and families attempting to access   or   coverage, including for   enrollment; and (v) policies or practices that may reduce the affordability of coverage or financial assistance for coverage, including for dependents.

(b) Heads of agencies shall, as soon as practicable and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider whether to suspend, revise, or rescind—and, as applicable, publish for notice and comment proposed rules suspending, revising, or rescinding—those agency actions identified as inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

(c) Heads of agencies shall, as soon as practicable and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider whether to take any additional agency actions to more fully enforce the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 4

.

Revocation of Certain Presidential Actions and  

. (a) Executive Order   (Minimizing the Economic Burden of   and Affordable Care Act Pending Repeal), and Executive Order   of   (   ), are revoked.

(b) As part of the review required under section 3 of this order, heads of agencies shall identify existing agency actions related to or arising from Executive Orders  . Heads of agencies shall, as soon as practicable, consider whether to suspend, revise, or rescind -- and, as applicable, publish for notice and comment proposed rules suspending, revising, or rescinding—any such agency actions, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law and the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
