PART I—PUTTING THE CLIMATE CRISIS AT   FOREIGN POLICY AND NATIONAL SECURITY

Section 101

.

Policy

.   international engagement to address climate change—which has become a climate crisis—is more necessary and urgent than ever. The scientific community has made clear that the scale and speed of necessary action is greater than previously believed. There is little time left to avoid setting the world on a dangerous, potentially catastrophic, climate trajectory. Responding to the climate crisis will require both significant short-term global reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and net-zero global emissions by   or before.

It is the policy of my Administration that climate considerations shall be an essential element of   foreign policy and national security.   will work with other countries and partners, both bilaterally and multilaterally, to put the world on a sustainable climate pathway.   will also move quickly to build resilience, both at home and abroad, against the impacts of climate change that are already manifest and will continue to intensify according to current trajectories.

 . 102

.

Purpose

. This order builds on and reaffirms actions my   has already taken to place the climate crisis at the forefront of this  's foreign policy and national security planning, including submitting   instrument of acceptance to rejoin the Paris Agreement. In implementing—and building upon—the Paris Agreement's three overarching objectives (a safe global temperature, increased climate resilience, and financial flows aligned with a pathway toward low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development),   will exercise its leadership to promote a significant increase in global climate ambition to meet the climate challenge. In this regard:

(a) I will host an early   aimed at raising climate ambition and making a positive contribution to the 26th   of the Parties (COP26) and beyond.

(b)   will reconvene  , beginning with  . In cooperation with the members of that Forum, as well as with other partners as appropriate,   will pursue green recovery efforts, initiatives to advance the clean energy transition, sectoral decarbonization, and alignment of financial flows with the objectives of the Paris Agreement, including with respect to coal financing, nature-based solutions, and solutions to other climate-related challenges.

(c) I have created a new Presidentially appointed position, the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, to elevate the issue of climate change and underscore the commitment my Administration will make toward addressing it.

(d) Recognizing that climate change affects a wide range of subjects, it will be a   priority to press for enhanced climate ambition and integration of climate considerations across a wide range of international fora, including   (G7),  ), and fora that address clean energy, aviation, shipping, the Arctic, the ocean, sustainable development, migration, and other relevant topics. The Special Presidential Envoy for Climate and others, as appropriate, are encouraged to promote innovative approaches, including international multi-stakeholder initiatives. In addition, my Administration will work in partnership with  , localities,  , territories, and other   stakeholders to advance   climate diplomacy.

(e)   will immediately begin the process of developing its nationally determined contribution under the Paris Agreement. The process will include analysis and input from relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies), as well as appropriate outreach to domestic stakeholders.   will aim to submit its nationally determined contribution in advance of  .

(f)   will also immediately begin to develop a climate finance plan, making strategic use of multilateral and bilateral channels and institutions, to assist developing countries in implementing ambitious emissions reduction measures, protecting critical ecosystems, building resilience against the impacts of climate change, and promoting the flow of capital toward climate-aligned investments and away from high-carbon investments. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , in coordination with the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, shall lead a process to develop this plan, with the participation of    ), the Chief Executive Officer of   (DFC), the Chief Executive Officer of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , and the head of any other agency providing foreign assistance and development financing, as appropriate. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of the   shall submit the plan to the President, through the Assistant to the President for   and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, within   of the date of this order.

(g) The Secretary of the   shall:

(i) ensure that   is present and engaged in relevant international fora and institutions that are working on the management of climate-related financial risks;

(ii) develop a strategy for how the voice and vote of   can be used in international financial institutions, including   and  , to promote financing programs, economic stimulus packages, and debt relief initiatives that are aligned with and support the goals of the Paris Agreement; and

(iii) develop, in collaboration with the Secretary of  ,  , and the Chief Executive Officer of the  , a plan for promoting the protection of the   rainforest and other critical ecosystems that serve as global carbon sinks, including through market-based mechanisms.

(h) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of Energy shall work together and with  , the Chief Executive Officer of the  , and the heads of other agencies and partners, as appropriate, to identify steps through which   can promote ending international financing of carbon-intensive fossil fuel-based energy while simultaneously advancing sustainable development and a green recovery, in consultation with the Assistant to the President for  .

(i) The Secretary of  , in cooperation with the Secretary of   and the heads of other agencies, as appropriate, shall identify steps through which   can intensify international collaborations to drive innovation and deployment of clean energy technologies, which are critical for climate protection.

(j) The Secretary of   shall prepare, within   of the date of this order, a transmittal package seeking the  's advice and consent to ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, regarding the phasedown of the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons.

 . 103

.

Prioritizing Climate in Foreign Policy and National Security

. To ensure that climate change considerations are central to   foreign policy and national security:

(a) Agencies that engage in extensive international work shall develop, in coordination with the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, and submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , within   of the date of this order, strategies and implementation plans for integrating climate considerations into their international work, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law. These strategies and plans should include an assessment of:

(i) climate impacts relevant to broad agency strategies in particular countries or regions;

(ii) climate impacts on their agency-managed infrastructure abroad (e.g., embassies, military installations), without prejudice to existing requirements regarding assessment of such infrastructure;

(iii) how the agency intends to manage such impacts or incorporate risk mitigation into its installation master plans; and

(iv) how the agency's international work, including partner engagement, can contribute to addressing the climate crisis.

(b) The Director of   shall prepare, within   of the date of this order, a National Intelligence Estimate on the national and economic security impacts of climate change.

(c) The Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , through  , the Chair of  , the Administrator of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , the Administrator of  , and the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall develop and submit to the President, within   of the date of this order, an analysis of the security implications of climate change (Climate Risk Analysis) that can be incorporated into modeling, simulation, war-gaming, and other analyses.

(d) The Secretary of   and the Chairman of   shall consider the security implications of climate change, including any relevant information from   described in subsection (c) of this section, in developing  , Chairman's Risk Assessment, and other relevant strategy, planning, and programming documents and processes. Starting in  , the Secretary of   and the Chairman of   shall provide an   update, through  , on the progress made in incorporating the security implications of climate change into these documents and processes.

(e) The Secretary of   shall consider the implications of climate change in the Arctic, along our  's borders, and to  , including any relevant information from   described in subsection (c) of this section, in developing relevant strategy, planning, and programming documents and processes. Starting in  , the Secretary of   shall provide an   update, through  , on the progress made in incorporating the homeland security implications of climate change into these documents and processes.

 . 104

.

Reinstatement

.     (Climate Change and  ), is hereby reinstated.

PART II—TAKING A GOVERNMENT-WIDE APPROACH TO THE CLIMATE CRISIS

Sec. 201

.

Policy

. Even as our Nation emerges from profound public health and economic crises borne of a pandemic, we face a climate crisis that threatens our people and communities, public health and economy, and, starkly, our ability to live on planet Earth. Despite the peril that is already evident, there is promise in the solutions—opportunities to create well-paying union jobs to build a modern and sustainable infrastructure, deliver an equitable, clean energy future, and put   on a path to achieve net-zero emissions, economy-wide, by no later than 2050.

We must listen to science—and act. We must strengthen our clean air and water protections. We must hold polluters accountable for their actions. We must deliver environmental justice in communities all across  .   must drive assessment, disclosure, and mitigation of climate pollution and climate-related risks in every sector of our economy, marshaling the creativity, courage, and capital necessary to make our   resilient in the face of this threat. Together, we must combat the climate crisis with bold, progressive action that combines the full capacity of   with efforts from every corner of our Nation, every level of government, and every sector of our economy.

It is the policy of my Administration to organize and deploy the full capacity of its agencies to combat the climate crisis to implement a Government-wide approach that reduces climate pollution in every sector of the economy; increases resilience to the impacts of climate change; protects public health; conserves our lands, waters, and biodiversity; delivers environmental justice; and spurs well-paying union jobs and economic growth, especially through innovation, commercialization, and deployment of clean energy technologies and infrastructure. Successfully meeting these challenges will require   to pursue such a coordinated approach from planning to implementation, coupled with substantive engagement by stakeholders, including  , local, and   governments.

 . 202

.

 

. There is hereby established  ) within   of the President, which shall coordinate the policy-making process with respect to domestic climate-policy issues; coordinate domestic climate-policy advice to the President; ensure that domestic climate-policy decisions and programs are consistent with the President's stated goals and that those goals are being effectively pursued; and monitor implementation of the President's domestic climate-policy agenda.   shall have a staff headed by the Assistant to the President and   ( ) and shall include the Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy  .   shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order, subject to the availability of appropriations, and may work with established or ad hoc committees or interagency groups. All agencies shall cooperate with   and provide such information, support, and assistance to   as it may request, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 203

.

 

. There is hereby established a   (Task Force). The Task Force shall be chaired by  .

(a) Membership. The Task Force shall consist of the following additional members:

(i) the Secretary of the  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  ;

(iii) the Attorney General;

(iv) the Secretary of the  ;

(v) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Secretary of  ;

(xi) the Secretary of  ;

(xii) the Secretary of  ;

(xiii)  ;

( ) the Chair of  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi) the Director of  ;

(xvii) the Director of  ;

(xviii) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(xix) the Assistant to the President for  ;

(xx) the Assistant to the President for   and  ; and

(xxi) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.

(b) Mission and Work. The Task Force shall facilitate the organization and deployment of a Government-wide approach to combat the climate crisis. This Task Force shall facilitate planning and implementation of key Federal actions to reduce climate pollution; increase resilience to the impacts of climate change; protect public health; conserve our lands, waters, oceans, and biodiversity; deliver environmental justice; and spur well-paying union jobs and economic growth. As necessary and appropriate, members of   will engage on these matters with  , local,  , and territorial governments; workers and communities; and leaders across the various sectors of our economy.

(c)  . To the extent permitted by law, Task Force members shall prioritize action on climate change in their policy-making and budget processes, in their contracting and procurement, and in their engagement with  , local,  , and territorial governments; workers and communities; and leaders across all the sectors of our economy.

USE OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S BUYING POWER AND REAL PROPERTY AND ASSET MANAGEMENT

Sec. 204

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to lead the  's effort to combat the climate crisis by example—specifically, by aligning the management of Federal procurement and real property, public lands and waters, and financial programs to support robust climate action. By providing an immediate, clear, and stable source of product demand, increased transparency and data, and robust standards for the market, my Administration will help to catalyze private sector investment into, and accelerate the advancement of  's industrial capacity to supply, domestic clean energy, buildings, vehicles, and other necessary products and materials.

 . 205

.

  and  

. (a) The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality,  , and the Director of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall assist the National Climate Advisor, through   established in section 203 of this order, in developing a comprehensive plan to create good jobs and stimulate clean energy industries by revitalizing   sustainability efforts.

(b) The plan shall aim to use, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, all available procurement authorities to achieve or facilitate:

(i) a carbon pollution-free electricity sector no later than 2035; and

(ii) clean and zero-emission vehicles for  , local, and Tribal government fleets, including vehicles of  .

(c) If necessary, the plan shall recommend any additional legislation needed to accomplish these objectives.

(d) The plan shall also aim to ensure that   retains the union jobs integral to and involved in running and maintaining clean and zero-emission fleets, while spurring the creation of union jobs in the manufacture of those new vehicles. The plan shall be submitted to   within   of the date of this order.

 . 206

.

Procurement Standards

. Consistent with   of  , entitled, "Ensuring the Future Is Made in All of America by All of America's Workers," agencies shall adhere to the requirements of the Made in America Laws in making clean energy, energy efficiency, and clean energy procurement decisions. Agencies shall, consistent with applicable law, apply and enforce the  -Bacon Act and prevailing wage and benefit requirements. The Secretary of   shall take steps to update prevailing wage requirements. The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality shall consider additional administrative steps and guidance to assist the   in developing regulatory amendments to promote increased contractor attention on reduced carbon emission and Federal sustainability.

 . 207

.

Renewable Energy on Public Lands and in Offshore Waters

. The Secretary of the   shall review siting and permitting processes on public lands and in offshore waters to identify to the Task Force steps that can be taken, consistent with applicable law, to increase renewable energy production on those lands and in those waters, with the goal of doubling offshore wind by   while ensuring robust protection for our lands, waters, and biodiversity and creating good jobs. In conducting this review, the Secretary of the   shall consult, as appropriate, with the heads of relevant agencies, including the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , through  , the Secretary of  , the Chair of  ,   and   authorities, project developers, and other interested parties. The Secretary of the   shall engage with   authorities regarding the development and management of renewable and conventional energy resources on   lands.

 . 208

.

Oil and Natural Gas Development on Public Lands and in Offshore Waters

. To the extent consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of the   shall pause new oil and natural gas leases on public lands or in offshore waters pending completion of a comprehensive review and reconsideration of Federal oil and gas permitting and leasing practices in light of the Secretary of the  's broad stewardship responsibilities over the public lands and in offshore waters, including potential climate and other impacts associated with oil and gas activities on public lands or in offshore waters. The Secretary of the   shall complete that review in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , through  , and the Secretary of  . In conducting this analysis, and to the extent consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of the   shall consider whether to adjust royalties associated with coal, oil, and gas resources extracted from public lands and offshore waters, or take other appropriate action, to account for corresponding climate costs.

 . 209

.

 

. The heads of agencies shall identify for the Director of   and the National Climate Advisor any fossil fuel subsidies provided by their respective agencies, and then take steps to ensure that, to the extent consistent with applicable law, Federal funding is not directly subsidizing fossil fuels. The Director of   shall seek, in coordination with the heads of agencies and  , to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies from the budget request for   and thereafter.

 . 210

.

Clean Energy in Financial Management

. The heads of agencies shall identify opportunities for   funding to spur innovation, commercialization, and deployment of clean energy technologies and infrastructure for the Director of   and  , and then take steps to ensure that, to the extent consistent with applicable law, Federal funding is used to spur innovation, commercialization, and deployment of clean energy technologies and infrastructure. The Director of  , in coordination with agency heads and  , shall seek to prioritize such investments in the President's budget request for   and thereafter.

 . 211

.

Climate Action Plans and   to  

. (a) The head of each agency shall submit a draft action plan to   and the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer within   of the date of this order that describes steps the agency can take with regard to its facilities and operations to bolster adaptation and increase resilience to the impacts of climate change. Action plans should, among other things, describe the agency's climate vulnerabilities and describe the agency's plan to use the power of procurement to increase the energy and water efficiency of   installations, buildings, and facilities and ensure they are climate-ready. Agencies shall consider the feasibility of using the purchasing power of   to drive innovation, and shall seek to increase   resilience against supply chain disruptions. Such disruptions put the  's manufacturing sector at risk, as well as consumer access to critical goods and services. Agencies shall make their action plans public, and post them on the agency website, to the extent consistent with applicable law.

(b) Within   of an agency's submission of an action plan, the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer, in coordination with the Director of  , shall review the plan to assess its consistency with the policy set forth in section 204 of this order and the priorities issued by  .

(c) After submitting an initial action plan, the head of each agency shall submit to   and Federal Chief Sustainability Officer progress reports   on the status of implementation efforts. Agencies shall make progress reports public and post them on the agency website, to the extent consistent with applicable law. The heads of agencies shall assign their respective agency Chief Sustainability Officer the authority to perform duties relating to implementation of this order within the agency, to the extent consistent with applicable law.

(d) To assist agencies and  , local,  , and territorial governments, communities, and businesses in preparing for and adapting to the impacts of climate change, the Secretary of  , through  , the Secretary of  , through  , and the Director of  , in coordination with the heads of other agencies, as appropriate, shall provide to   a report on ways to expand and improve climate forecast capabilities and information products for the public. In addition, the Secretary of the   and the Deputy Director for  , in their capacities as the   and Vice-Chair of  , shall assess and provide to   a report on the potential development of a consolidated   geographic mapping service that can facilitate public access to climate-related information that will assist  ,  , local, and   governments in climate planning and resilience activities.

EMPOWERING WORKERS THROUGH REBUILDING OUR INFRASTRUCTURE FOR A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY

Sec. 212. Policy.

This Nation needs millions of construction, manufacturing, engineering, and skilled-trades workers to build a new   infrastructure and clean energy economy. These jobs will create opportunities for young people and for older workers shifting to new professions, and for people from all backgrounds and communities. Such jobs will bring opportunity to communities too often left behind—places that have suffered as a result of economic shifts and places that have suffered the most from persistent pollution, including low-income rural and urban communities, communities of color, and   communities.

 . 213. Sustainable Infrastructure.

(a) The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality and the Director of   shall take steps, consistent with applicable law, to ensure that Federal infrastructure investment reduces climate pollution, and to require that   permitting decisions consider the effects of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. In addition, they shall review, and report to   on, siting and permitting processes, including those in progress under the auspices of  , and identify steps that can be taken, consistent with applicable law, to accelerate the deployment of clean energy and transmission projects in an environmentally stable manner.

(b) Agency heads conducting infrastructure reviews shall, as appropriate, consult from an early stage with  , local, and   officials involved in permitting or authorizing proposed infrastructure projects to develop efficient timelines for decision-making that are appropriate given the complexities of proposed projects.

EMPOWERING WORKERS BY ADVANCING CONSERVATION,  , AND REFORESTATION

Sec. 214

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to put a new generation of   to work conserving our public lands and waters.   must protect  's natural treasures, increase reforestation, improve access to recreation, and increase resilience to wildfires and storms, while creating well-paying union jobs for more  , including more opportunities for women and people of color in occupations where they are underrepresented.  's farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners have an important role to play in combating the climate crisis and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, by sequestering carbon in soils, grasses, trees, and other vegetation and sourcing sustainable bioproducts and fuels.   communities have an essential role to play in mitigating climate change and strengthening resilience by protecting and restoring coastal ecosystems, such as wetlands, seagrasses, coral and oyster reefs, and mangrove and kelp forests, to protect vulnerable coastlines, sequester carbon, and support biodiversity and fisheries.

 . 215

.

 

. In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 214 of this order, the Secretary of the  , in collaboration with the Secretary of Agriculture and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall submit a strategy to   within   of the date of this order for creating a  , within existing appropriations, to mobilize the next generation of conservation and resilience workers and maximize the creation of accessible training opportunities and good jobs. The initiative shall aim to conserve and restore public lands and waters, bolster community resilience, increase reforestation, increase carbon sequestration in the agricultural sector, protect biodiversity, improve access to recreation, and address the changing climate.

 . 216

.

Conserving Our Nation's Lands and Waters

. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Chair of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall submit a report to   within   of the date of this order recommending steps that   should take, working with  , local,  , and territorial governments, agricultural and forest landowners, fishermen, and other key stakeholders, to achieve the goal of conserving at least 30 percent of our lands and waters by  .

(i) The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , through  , and the Chair of   shall, as appropriate, solicit input from  , local,  , and territorial officials, agricultural and forest landowners, fishermen, and other key stakeholders in identifying strategies that will encourage broad participation in the goal of conserving 30 percent of our lands and waters by  .

(ii) The report shall propose guidelines for determining whether lands and waters qualify for conservation, and it also shall establish mechanisms to measure progress toward the 30-percent goal. The Secretary of the   shall subsequently submit   reports to   to monitor progress.

(b) The Secretary of Agriculture shall:

(i) initiate efforts in   from the date of this order to collect input from  , farmers, ranchers, forest owners, conservation groups, firefighters, and other stakeholders on how to best use   programs, funding and financing capacities, and other authorities, and how to encourage the voluntary adoption of climate-smart agricultural and forestry practices that decrease wildfire risk fueled by climate change and result in additional, measurable, and verifiable carbon reductions and sequestration and that source sustainable bioproducts and fuels; and

(ii) submit to   within   of the date of this order a report making recommendations for an agricultural and forestry climate strategy.

(c) The Secretary of  , through  , shall initiate efforts in   from the date of this order to collect input from fishermen, regional ocean councils, fishery management councils, scientists, and other stakeholders on how to make fisheries and protected resources more resilient to climate change, including changes in management and conservation measures, and improvements in science, monitoring, and cooperative research.

EMPOWERING WORKERS THROUGH REVITALIZING ENERGY COMMUNITIES

Sec. 217

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to improve air and water quality and to create well-paying union jobs and more opportunities for women and people of color in hard-hit communities, including rural communities, while reducing methane emissions, oil and brine leaks, and other environmental harms from tens of thousands of former mining and well sites. Mining and power plant workers drove the industrial revolution and the economic growth that followed, and have been essential to the growth of  . As the   shifts to a clean energy economy, Federal leadership is essential to foster economic revitalization of and investment in these communities, ensure the creation of good jobs that provide a choice to join a union, and secure the benefits that have been earned by workers.

Such work should include projects that reduce emissions of toxic substances and greenhouse gases from existing and abandoned infrastructure and that prevent environmental damage that harms communities and poses a risk to public health and safety. Plugging leaks in oil and gas wells and reclaiming abandoned mine land can create well-paying union jobs in coal, oil, and gas communities while restoring natural assets, revitalizing recreation economies, and curbing methane emissions. In addition, such work should include efforts to turn properties idled in these communities, such as brownfields, into new hubs for the growth of our economy. Federal agencies should therefore coordinate investments and other efforts to assist coal, oil and gas, and power plant communities, and achieve substantial reductions of methane emissions from the oil and gas sector as quickly as possible.

 . 218

.

Interagency   on   and  

. There is hereby established   on   and   (Interagency  ).   and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy shall serve as   of  .

(a) Membership.   shall consist of the following additional members:

(i) the Secretary of the  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x)  ;

(xi) the Director of  ;

(xii) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and Director of  ; and

(xiii)   of  .

(b) Mission and Work.

(i)   shall coordinate the identification and delivery of Federal resources to revitalize the economies of coal, oil and gas, and power plant communities; develop strategies to implement the policy set forth in section 217 of this order and for economic and social recovery; assess opportunities to ensure benefits and protections for coal and power plant workers; and submit reports to   and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy on a regular basis on the progress of the revitalization effort.

(ii) As part of this effort, within   of the date of this order,   shall submit a report to the President describing all mechanisms, consistent with applicable law, to prioritize grantmaking, Federal loan programs, technical assistance, financing, procurement, or other existing programs to support and revitalize the economies of coal and power plant communities, and providing recommendations for action consistent with the goals of  .

(c) Consultation. Consistent with the objectives set out in this order and in accordance with applicable law,   shall seek the views of  , local, and   officials; unions; environmental justice organizations; community groups; and other persons it identifies who may have perspectives on the mission of  .

(d) Administration.   shall be housed within  . The Chairs shall convene regular meetings of  , determine its agenda, and direct its work. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Chairs, shall designate an Executive Director of  , who shall coordinate the work of   and head any staff assigned to  .

(e) Officers. To facilitate the work of  , the head of each agency listed in subsection (a) of this section shall assign a designated official within the agency the authority to represent the agency on   and perform such other duties relating to the implementation of this order within the agency as the head of the agency deems appropriate.

  JUSTICE AND SPURRING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY

Sec. 219

.

Policy

. To secure an equitable economic future,   must ensure that environmental and economic justice are key considerations in how we govern. That means investing and building a clean energy economy that creates well-paying union jobs, turning disadvantaged communities—historically marginalized and overburdened—into healthy, thriving communities, and undertaking robust actions to mitigate climate change while preparing for the impacts of climate change across rural, urban, and Tribal areas. Agencies shall make achieving environmental justice part of their missions by developing programs, policies, and activities to address the disproportionately high and adverse human health, environmental, climate-related and other cumulative impacts on disadvantaged communities, as well as the accompanying economic challenges of such impacts. It is therefore the policy of my Administration to secure environmental justice and spur economic opportunity for disadvantaged communities that have been historically marginalized and overburdened by pollution and underinvestment in housing, transportation, water and wastewater infrastructure, and health care.

 . 220

.

  Environmental Justice Interagency Council

. (a) Section 1-102 of Executive Order   of   (  Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations), is hereby amended to read as follows:

"(a) There is hereby created within   of the President a   Environmental Justice Interagency Council (Interagency Council). The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality shall serve as  .

"(b) Membership. The Interagency Council shall consist of the following additional members:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Attorney General;

(iii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iv) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Secretary of  ;

(xi) the Chair of  ;

(xii) the Administrator of  ;

(xiii) the Director of  ;

( ) the Executive Director of  ;

(xv) the Director of  ;

(xvi)  ;

(xvii) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy; and

(xviii) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.

"(c) At the direction of the  ,   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees under this section, as appropriate.

"(d) Mission and Work. The Interagency Council shall develop a strategy to address current and historic environmental injustice by consulting with   and with local environmental justice leaders.   shall also develop clear performance metrics to ensure accountability, and publish an annual public performance scorecard on its implementation.

"(e) Administration.   within   of the President shall provide funding and administrative support for  , to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. To the extent permitted by law, including the Economy Act (31 U.S.C.  ), and subject to the availability of appropriations,  ,  , and   shall provide administrative support as necessary.

"(f) Meetings and Staff. The   shall convene regular meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work. The   shall designate an Executive Director of the  , who shall coordinate the work of   and head any staff assigned to the  .

"(g) Officers. To facilitate the work of  , the head of each agency listed in subsection (b) shall assign a designated official within the agency to be an Environmental Justice Officer, with the authority to represent the agency on   and perform such other duties relating to the implementation of this order within the agency as the head of the agency deems appropriate."

(b)   shall, within   of the date of this order, submit to the President, through  , a set of recommendations for further updating Executive Order  .

 . 221

.

  Environmental Justice Advisory Council

. There is hereby established, within  ,   (Advisory Council), which shall advise   and the Chair of  .

(a) Membership. Members shall be appointed by the President, shall be drawn from across the political spectrum, and may include those with knowledge about or experience in environmental justice, climate change, disaster preparedness, racial inequity, or any other area determined by the President to be of value to  .

(b) Mission and Work. The   shall be solely advisory. It shall provide recommendations to   established in section 220 of this order on how to increase   efforts to address current and historic environmental injustice, including recommendations for updating Executive Order  .

(c) Administration.   shall provide funding and administrative support for   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. Members of the   shall serve without either compensation or reimbursement of expenses.

(d)  . Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to  , any functions of the President under the Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by   in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

 . 222

.

Agency Responsibilities

. In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 219:

(a) The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality shall, within   of this order, create a geospatial   and shall annually publish interactive maps highlighting disadvantaged communities.

(b) The Administrator of   shall, within existing appropriations and consistent with applicable law:

(i) strengthen enforcement of environmental violations with disproportionate impact on underserved communities through  ; and

(ii) create a community notification program to monitor and provide real-time data to the public on current environmental pollution, including emissions, criteria pollutants, and toxins, in frontline and fenceline communities—places with the most significant exposure to such pollution.

(c) The Attorney General shall, within existing appropriations and consistent with applicable law:

(i) consider renaming the Environment and   and  ;

(ii) direct that division to coordinate with  , through  , as well as with other client agencies as appropriate, to develop a comprehensive environmental justice enforcement strategy, which shall seek to provide timely remedies for systemic environmental violations and contaminations, and injury to natural resources; and

(iii) ensure comprehensive attention to environmental justice throughout  , including by considering creating an   within the   to coordinate environmental justice activities among   components and   nationwide.

(d) The Secretary of   shall, consistent with applicable law and within existing appropriations:

(i) establish   to address the impact of climate change on the health of the   people; and

(ii) establish   to Decrease Risk of Climate Change to Children, the  , People with Disabilities, and the Vulnerable as well as a biennial  , both of which shall report their progress and findings regularly to  .

(e) The Director of   shall, in consultation with  , within existing appropriations, and within   of the date of this order, publish a report identifying the climate strategies and technologies that will result in the most air and water quality improvements, which shall be made public to the maximum extent possible and published on the  's website.

 . 223

.

 

. (a) Within   of this order, the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality, the Director of  , and  , in consultation with  , shall jointly publish recommendations on how certain Federal investments might be made toward a goal that 40 percent of the overall benefits flow to disadvantaged communities. The recommendations shall focus on investments in the areas of clean energy and energy efficiency; clean transit; affordable and sustainable housing; training and workforce development; the remediation and reduction of legacy pollution; and the development of critical clean water infrastructure. The recommendations shall reflect existing authorities the agencies may possess for achieving the 40-percent goal as well as recommendations on any legislation needed to achieve the 40-percent goal.

(b) In developing the recommendations,  , the Director of  , and the   shall consult with affected disadvantaged communities.

(c) Within   of the recommendations described in subsection (a) of this section, agency heads shall identify applicable program investment funds based on the recommendations and consider interim investment guidance to relevant program staff, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(d) By  , the Director of  , in coordination with  , the Administrator of  , and other relevant agency heads, shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, publish on a public website an annual   detailing agency environmental justice performance measures.

PART III—GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 301

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of  , relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
