Section 1

. Sections 1 through 5 of Executive Order  , as amended by Executive Order   of   (Amending Executive Order 13959—Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance   Chinese Military Companies), are hereby replaced and superseded in their entirety to read as follows:

"

Section 1

. (a) The following activities by a   person are prohibited: the purchase or sale of any publicly traded securities, or any publicly traded securities that are derivative of such securities or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of any person listed in the   to this order or of any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , and, as the Secretary of the   deems appropriate, the Secretary of Defense:

(i) to operate or have operated in the defense and related materiel sector or the surveillance technology sector of the economy of the  ; or

(ii) to own or control, or to be owned or controlled by, directly or indirectly, a person who operates or has operated in any sector described in subsection (a)(i) of this section, or a person who is listed in the   to this order or who has otherwise been determined to be subject to the prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section shall take effect:

(i) beginning at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , with respect to any person listed in the   to this order; or

(ii) beginning at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the date that is   after the date of the determination in subsection (a) of this section with respect to any person not listed in the   to this order.

(c) The purchase or sale of publicly traded securities described in subsection (a) of this section made solely to effect the divestment, in whole or in part, of such securities by a   person is permitted prior to:

(i) 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on  , with respect to any person listed in the   to this order; or

(ii) 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on the date that is   after the date of the determination in subsection (a) of this section with respect to any person not listed in the   to this order.

(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 2

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(c) the term "publicly traded securities" includes any "security," as defined in section 3(a)(10) of   of  , Public Law 73-291 (as codified as amended at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)), denominated in any currency that trades on a securities exchange or through the method of trading that is commonly referred to as "over-the-counter," in any jurisdiction; and

(d) the term "  person" means any   citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 4

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All executive departments and agencies (agencies) of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 5

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 6

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , and, as the Secretary of the   deems appropriate, the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to determine that circumstances no longer warrant the application of the prohibitions in section 1(a) of this order with respect to a person listed in the   to this order, and to take necessary action to give effect to that determination."

Sec. 2

. The   to Executive Order   is replaced and superseded in its entirety by the   to this order.

 . 3

. Section 6 of Executive Order   is amended to replace "

Sec. 6

." with "

Sec. 7

."

 . 4

. Executive   is hereby revoked in its entirety. The Secretary of the   and the heads of agencies shall take all necessary steps to rescind any orders or prohibitions issued prior to the date of this order implementing or enforcing Executive Order   or the versions of sections 1 through 5 of Executive Order   replaced and superseded by section 1 of this order.

 . 5

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
