Section 1

.

Policy

.   agenda includes a once-in-a-generation investment in our  's infrastructure. This agenda is also driving the creation of well-paying jobs and growing the economy sustainably and equitably, and it will continue to do so for   to come. To fully realize the benefits of these investments, students and workers at all stages of life need equitable access to education and training for the good jobs in their communities.

Critical to achieving these goals is promoting  , as described in title 29, parts 29 and  , of the Code of Federal Regulations, which provide substantial benefits to both workers and employers. As the  's largest employer and procurer of goods and services,   can be a model for the use and promotion of skills-based hiring, such as the use of  , which reduces barriers to employment and attracts a diverse workforce to meet our  's critical needs. My Administration has made strengthening and empowering the Federal workforce a management priority. As a part of its overall strategy to hire, retain, and develop the people needed to accomplish executive department and agency (agency) missions and to create equitable, transparent, and transferable career-development pathways,   can scale and expand   programs to modernize and broaden avenues to Federal jobs, thereby improving access to opportunities for underserved workers.

Additionally,   provide an opportunity for managers, employees, and employees' union representatives to discuss how   operations can promote satisfactory labor relations and improve the productivity and effectiveness of  .  , as complements to the existing collective bargaining process, allow managers and employees to collaborate in order to continue to deliver the highest quality goods and services to the   people.

It is the policy of my Administration to promote   to meet employer needs while investing in workers' skills; reducing employment barriers; and promoting job quality, equity, inclusion, and accessibility for the benefit of   and the Nation. Further, it is the policy of my Administration to establish cooperative and productive labor-management relations throughout the executive branch.

 . 2

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) The term "Registered Apprenticeship" means an industry-driven career pathway through which employers can develop and prepare their future workforces and individuals can obtain paid training, work experience, progressive wage increases, classroom instruction, and a portable, nationally recognized credential. A Registered Apprenticeship must meet the requirements for registration as set forth in 29   parts 29 and 30.

(b) The term "Pre-Apprenticeship" has the meaning set forth in 29   30.2.

(c) The term " " means a nonadversarial forum for managers, employees, and employees' union representatives to discuss how   operations can promote satisfactory labor relations and improve the productivity and effectiveness of  .

(d) The term "agencies" means  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   (OPM),  , and  .

(e) The term "participating agencies" means agencies led by the heads of agencies listed in section 3(b) of this order.

(f) The term "interested agencies" means agencies as defined in subsection (d) of this section, the heads of which are not listed in section 3(b) of this order but that are interested in expanding the use of   by either adding   criteria to grants or contracts or including   career opportunities within their agency.

(g) The term "  agencies" means all agencies subject to chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code.

 . 3

.

Registered Apprenticeship Interagency  

. (a) There is established within   of the President   ( ). The function of   is to coordinate policy development with regard to   and the effective implementation of this order. The Director of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of  , and the Assistant to the President and Director of   shall serve as   of  . The Secretary of   and the Director of OPM shall serve as Vice Chairs of  .

(b) In addition to   and Vice Chairs, the   shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of the  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  ;

(iii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iv) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Secretary of  ;

(xi) the Secretary of  ;

(xii) the Administrator of  ;

(xiii) the Director of  ;

( ) the Assistant to the President and Director of  ;

(xv) the National Cyber Director;

(xvi) the Director of  ;

(xvii) the Administrator of  ;

(xviii)  ; and

(xix) the Chief Executive Officer of  .

  may from time to time invite heads of interested agencies to participate in  .

(c)   shall support the implementation of this order by providing guidance and technical assistance to agencies.

(d)   shall submit an initial report to the President within   of the date of this order. This report shall contain:

(i) initial findings and recommendations on potential opportunities for   programs at participating and interested agencies, including an assessment of the need for new hiring and promotion authorities;

(ii) initial findings and recommendations on the promotion of hiring and career advancement in   for individuals who have completed a Registered Apprenticeship;

(iii) an assessment of how Registered Apprenticeships may enable agencies to address hiring needs and improve employee retention for roles that are important to the mission of participating agencies and the operations of  ; and

(iv) an assessment of how Registered Apprenticeships may expand equity and accessibility and provide pathways into and up through Federal employment for individuals in underserved communities.

(e)   shall assist agencies, consistent with applicable law, in promoting and utilizing   in Federal grant programs and procurement as described in section 4 of this order. To do so,  (i) may consult with stakeholders from industry, education, labor, and other areas of society to assess demand for Registered Apprenticeships in specific occupations and sectors identified by  ;

(ii) shall review available data provided by   and other relevant agencies on a periodic basis to evaluate the prevalence and growth of   in specific occupations and sectors identified by  ;

(iii) shall encourage the use of common reporting criteria to support agency data collection and measurement of the utilization of Registered Apprenticeships in grants and procurement, including, where permissible, data on demographics and occupation;

(iv) shall collect information from participating agencies on best practices for the utilization of Registered Apprenticeships in grants and contracts, including for expanding job quality, equity, and access to employment for all individuals in underserved communities, and, consistent with applicable law, shall report this information publicly to assist agencies in fulfilling their responsibilities under this order;

(v) shall identify agency programs for which workforce development, including use of  , is an allowable use of funds; and

(vi) shall identify agency programs for which grantees and contractors could be provided incentives, consistent with agency authorities, to adopt or expand   programs for their workforces.

 . 4

.

Procurement and Grants

. (a) Agencies shall review their Federal financial assistance programs and procurement plans and identify where, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, they could include requirements, application evaluation factors, or incentives in appropriate program documents or solicitations for grantees or contractors to employ workers on projects receiving Federal funding who are participating in, or who have completed, either    .

(b) Agencies shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, apply the requirements, application evaluation factors, or incentives that they have identified pursuant to the review conducted in subsection (a) of this section in appropriate program documents or solicitations for grantees or contractors. Agencies may consult   for technical assistance and other appropriate support in these efforts.

(c) Agencies shall   report to   on the programs and solicitations that included the terms described in subsection (a) of this section and the awards and contracts that promoted the use of   and   pursuant to a requirement, application evaluation factor, or incentive.

 . 5

.

Expanded Use of Registered Apprenticeships at Agencies

. Based on recommendations from the initial report described in section 3(d) of this order and in consultation with  , agencies, as part of their strategic workforce planning, shall take steps to develop and expand the use of   programs, where practicable, to train and develop incumbent workers and candidates for employment to obtain the skills necessary to meet the current and emerging needs of the agency workforce. With respect to those programs:

(a) Agencies shall identify, in consultation with  , existing authorities that can support both the hiring of new employees for   and the training of incumbent workers through   programs.

(b) Based on recommendations from the initial report described in section 3(d) of this order and in consultation with  , agencies shall identify top occupations, including those occupations for which the agency faces challenges in recruitment and training, for which the agency may benefit from the use of   programs. Any such actions shall be consistent with section 6 of Executive Order   ( , and   in the Federal Workforce).

(c) Agencies shall develop outreach and recruitment strategies to attract individuals who may not otherwise have considered a   program for Federal employment or advancement.

(d) In consultation with Federal unions through  , agencies shall identify opportunities for current Federal employees to access and benefit from a   program.

(e) Agencies shall establish training, mentorship, and career-development services within   programs to support employee development and retention.

 . 6

.

Implementation of Labor-Management Forums Throughout the Executive Branch

. (a) Executive Order   (Revocation of Executive    ), is hereby revoked.

(b)   agency, consistent with any guidance issued by  , shall:

(i) establish   by creating joint labor-management committees or councils at the levels of recognition and other appropriate levels agreed to by the employee union and management, or by adapting existing councils or committees if such groups exist, to help identify problems and propose solutions to better serve the public and agency mission;

(ii) allow employees and their union representatives to have pre-decisional involvement in workplace matters, including consultation on   recommendations and discussions with management for the development of joint solutions to workplace challenges; and

(iii) evaluate and document, in consultation with union representatives and any further guidance provided by  , changes in employee satisfaction, manager satisfaction, and organizational performance resulting from  .

(c) Each head of a   agency for which there exists one or more exclusive representatives, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a)(16), shall, in consultation with union representatives, prepare and submit to  , within   of the date of this order, a written implementation plan that addresses the requirements of subsection (b) of this section.   shall review each plan within   of receipt and shall determine whether to certify that the plan satisfies the requirements of this order and any further guidance issued by  . Upon certification, the head of   agency shall ensure that the certified plan is faithfully executed. Any plan that is determined by   to be insufficient shall be returned to   agency with guidance for improvement, and the agency shall resubmit its revised plan to   within   of receipt of the original plan from  .

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) This order supersedes Executive Order   of   (Creating Labor-Management Forums to Improve Delivery of Government Services).

(b) Nothing in this order shall abrogate any collective bargaining agreements in effect as of the date of this order.

(c) Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit, preclude, or prohibit the head of any executive department or agency from electing to negotiate over any or all of the subjects set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(1) in any negotiation.

(d) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(e) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(f) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
