Section 1

.

Purpose

. On the evening of  , a   (Norfolk Southern) train carrying hazardous materials derailed in  , located in   in  . At least 11 rail cars contained hazardous materials, including vinyl chloride, ethylene glycol monobutyl ether, ethyl-hexyl acrylate, butyl acrylates, benzene residue, and isobutylene. Some cars caught fire, and some spilled their loads onto the ground. These substances traveled into local waterways, including   and  , and flowed miles downstream. The  's fire department and several other fire departments responded. On the evening of  , responders observed a dramatic temperature increase in a derailed tanker rail car.   expressed serious concern that the temperature change could lead to a catastrophic tanker rail car failure, which could cause an explosion with the potential of deadly shrapnel traveling up to 1 mile. The incident commander on the scene determined that the safest course of action was to conduct a controlled release of the chemicals.

It is critical that   continue to be held fully accountable under the law for this disaster, and continue to provide resources to address the effects in East Palestine and surrounding communities.

My Administration has mobilized a robust, multi-agency effort to support the people of East Palestine,  , and surrounding communities. Within hours of the   Southern train derailment,   ( ) deployed a team to East Palestine to support   and local emergency and environmental response efforts. On  ,   issued a Unilateral Administrative Order ( ) for   pursuant to  , Compensation, and Liability Act ( ), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9606(a). Pursuant to the  ,   is directing and supervising the cleanup to protect the health, safety, and future of the East Palestine community and other affected communities.   and its contractors are performing the cleanup under the  . Since  , working closely with  , and local partners,   has led and continues to lead cleanup efforts, air quality monitoring, soil sampling, and water sampling to ensure the protection of human health and the environment, keep residents of East Palestine and nearby areas of   and   updated on these and other ongoing efforts, and, importantly, hold   fully accountable under   for the cleanup operation. More than 115,000 tons of contaminated soil and more than 33 million gallons of contaminated liquid have been shipped offsite for disposal. The   has built and manages an extensive air monitoring and sampling network that uses several different technologies and approaches to provide separate and redundant sources of data on air quality at the derailment site and throughout the area. In addition to monitoring,  's network continues to conduct analytical air sampling at many locations in the affected areas. Together, these efforts are designed to ensure that contamination from the site does not enter nearby communities. To date,   has collected more than 18,000 air samples and more than 3,000 soil samples. The  's   and local partners have collected more than 425 monitoring-well samples and more than 3,200 surface water samples, and have conducted 31 rounds of drinking water sampling. Available data show that no contaminants of concern have been detected at levels of concern in the air in the affected communities at sustained levels since the evacuation order was lifted. Almost no contaminants of concern have been detected at levels of concern in water in surface streams since  . Treated municipal drinking water shows no detection of contaminants associated with the derailment. To date, sampling indicates that residential groundwater wells have not been affected by chemicals associated with the derailment.

  ( ) has been coordinating with and supporting   ( ) to investigate the derailment. Officials from two   agencies,   (FRA) and the Pipeline and   (PHMSA), also arrived on the scene within hours of the incident to investigate the causes of the derailment. The   is also assessing   compliance with rail safety regulations and scrutinizing   overall safety culture.   ( ) provided incident management and outreach support on the ground in East Palestine and has been closely coordinating with   in furtherance of the multi-agency response and recovery effort.   ( ), including through   ( ) and the   for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, have also responded, including by deploying a team to conduct public health testing and assessments in the affected areas. The team has supported  , and local officials already on the ground to evaluate individuals who were exposed or potentially exposed to chemicals and help ensure timely communications to the public.

My Administration is committed to supporting the people of East Palestine and all those affected in surrounding areas of   and   every step of the way, and continuing to hold   fully accountable under the law.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is a continuing priority of my Administration to hold   fully accountable under the law for this disaster and any of its long-term effects and to provide additional Federal assistance that the affected  , the people of East Palestine, and all those affected in surrounding communities may need.

 . 3

.

Federal Implementation

. (a)  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   are directed to use their authorities and available resources as appropriate to advance the policy established in section 2 of this order.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, pursuant to section 503(b) of the Homeland Security Act of  , as amended (6 U.S.C. 313(b)), the Secretary of  , through  , shall designate a Federal Disaster Recovery Coordinator (Coordinator) to oversee long-term recovery efforts in the affected communities and conduct a comprehensive assessment of unmet needs of the affected communities in recovering from the derailment beyond the cleanup work directed by  . The Coordinator shall identify, in partnership with the   and   community, any unmet needs that are not addressed by   and would qualify for Federal assistance, and shall immediately notify the relevant executive department or agency. The Coordinator shall repeat this assessment should   stop meeting needs that it is currently addressing.

(c)    's request for a major disaster declaration pursuant to the   Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C.  

et seq

. (Stafford Act), shall be held in abeyance to allow the   time to submit information on needs that may arise in the future and cannot be addressed by  ,  , and local governments and therefore require Federal assistance under the Stafford Act. If   receives such information from the  , including with respect to a change in the nature of assistance provided by  , the Administrator shall immediately assess and submit a recommendation on whether a major disaster declaration is warranted.

(d) The   shall continue to direct removal of contaminated soils and wastewater from the site. The   shall also ensure that any remaining contamination in surface stream sediments is addressed and that air and water monitoring continue. Within   of the date of this order,   shall submit a report to the President on the cleanup efforts and whether   continues to comply with  's   to address the imminent and substantial endangerment its derailment caused. The report shall also explain the status of air, soil, surface water, groundwater, and drinking water sampling and monitoring. The   shall submit an updated report to the President every   thereafter until all cleanup, assessment, and monitoring work required by  's   has been completed.

(e) Within   of this order,   shall submit a report to the President that summarizes key conclusions from the public health testing and assessments that have been conducted to date and the resources   and the   have provided to address any health conditions related to the derailment.

(f) In coordination with the affected  ,   shall continue to monitor the public health consequences of the derailment, including any long-term health issues in the affected communities. Based on that monitoring, and based on the development of any acute medical conditions related to the derailment, the Secretary of   shall consider whether the circumstances warrant a declaration of a public health emergency under 42 U.S.C. 247d and, if the Secretary makes such a declaration, the Secretary shall exercise all appropriate authorities made available by such a declaration. The Administrator of   shall also consider, in consultation with  , whether the circumstances constitute a public health emergency under 42 U.S.C. 9604(a).

(g) The   shall provide technical assistance to   and   in the event that either   considers submitting a proposal for services through the   program for individuals affected by the derailment, such as an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project   U.S.C.  .

(h) Within   of this order,   shall submit a report to the President on the actions that   is taking in light of the East Palestine train derailment. This report shall be updated within   of the final   investigation; the updated report shall include  's preliminary set of follow-on actions, which could include rulemakings, inspection activities, or other actions to ensure accountability. Should the   provide   with broader authorities than now exist, such new authorities shall be identified and timelines established for action.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
