Section 1

. Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  .

(a) Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(b) President's Commission on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(c) President's Committee on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(d)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(e) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(f) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(g) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(h)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(i) Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive Order   ( ).

(j)   to   Representative to  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(k)   to   Representative to  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(l)  ; Executive Order  , as amended (Environmental Protection Agency).

(m)  /AIDS; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(n) President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(o)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(p)  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(q)  ; Executive  , as amended ( ).

(r) President's  , and  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(s) Interagency Task Force on  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(t) State, Local, Tribal, and Private Sector (SLTPS) Policy  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(u) President's   in Africa; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(v) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(w)  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(x) President's   on    ,  , and  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(y) President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(z)   on  , and Economic Opportunity for  ; Executive Order 14045 ( ).

(aa)   on  , and Economic Opportunity for Black Americans; Executive Order   ( ).

(bb) President's   and the  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(cc) President's   on African Diaspora Engagement in  ; Executive   ( ).

(dd) Commerce Spectrum Management Advisory Committee; initially established pursuant to   for   ( ) ( ).

(ee) Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 6920 of  , as amended ( ).

(ff)   Islands National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 8947 of   ( ).

(gg) Bears Ears National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 9558 of  , as amended ( ).

(hh)  ; Proclamation 9559 of   ( ).

(ii) Avi Kwa Ame National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 10533 of March 21, 2023 ( ).

(jj) Baaj Nwaavjo  -Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 10606 of August 8,   ( ).

(kk) National Space-Based Positioning,  , and  ; Space Policy Directive 7, " ,  , and Timing Policy" ( ) ( ).

 . 2

. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code, that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the regulations, guidelines, and procedures established by  .

 . 3

. Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order   of  , are hereby superseded by sections 1 and 2 of this order.

 . 4

. Executive Order   of  , is amended as follows:

(a) in section 2(b), by striking "and" at the conclusion of subsection (vi), by striking the period at the conclusion of subsection (vii) and replacing it with "; and", and by inserting the following new subsection after subsection (vii):

"(viii) ways to expand national awareness of and share information about efforts to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for AA and   communities.";

(b) in section 2, by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively, and inserting the following new subsection after subsection (c):

"(d) The members of the   shall function as liaisons and spokespersons on behalf of the   to relevant State, local, and private entities, and shall share information about the work of the   in order to advise the President regarding the development, monitoring, and coordination of executive branch efforts to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for AA and   communities in  , including efforts to close gaps in health, socioeconomic, employment, and educational outcomes."; and

(c) in section 3, by striking subsection (f) and inserting, in lieu thereof, the following:

"(f) The Initiative shall coordinate with and support the existing regional network of   officials who facilitate improved communication, engagement, and coordination between   and AA and   communities throughout   (Regional Network). Agencies identified as participants in the   shall designate regional agency employees to serve as representatives to   and shall seek opportunities, consistent with applicable law and available resources, to provide support and resources to  . The Executive Director shall coordinate the efforts of   and may establish regular reporting and information-sharing activities between   and the  .".

 . 5

. Executive Order   of  , is amended as follows:

(a) in section 2(b)(i), by striking "25" and inserting in lieu thereof "30"; and

(b) in section 2, by redesignating subsections (f), (g), (h), and (i) as subsections (g), (h), (i), and (j), respectively, and by inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsection:

"(f) The Executive Director and the members of the   may function as liaisons and spokespersons on behalf of the   to relevant State, local, and private entities to share information about the work of the   in order to advise the President on the implementation of national engagement with   necessary to advance the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services.".

 . 6

. This order shall be effective  .

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
