GENERAL ORDERS, No. 96

WAR DEPARTMENT

 -GENERAL'S   to raise a force of   militia, to serve during the war, is granted, by direction of the President, to the governor of  . This force is to cooperate with the troops in the service of   in repelling the invasion of the State of   and in suppressing rebellion therein. It is to be held, in camp and in the field, drilled, disciplined, and governed according to the Regulations of   and subject to the Articles of War; but it is not to be ordered out of the   of   except for the immediate defense of the said  .

The   forces thus authorized will be, during such time as they shall be actually engaged as an embodied military force in active service, armed, equipped, clothed, subsisted, transported, and paid by   in accordance with the Regulations of   and such orders as may from time to time be issued from  , and in no other manner; and they shall be considered as disbanded from the service of   whenever the President may so direct.

In connection with this force the governor is authorized to appoint the following officers, who will be recognized and paid by  , to wit: One major-general, to command the whole of the   forces brought into service, who shall be the same person appointed by the President to command   of the West, and shall retain his commission as major-general of the   forces only during his command of the said department; one adjutant-general, one inspector-general, and one quartermaster-general, each with the rank and pay of a colonel of cavalry; three aids-de-camp to the governor, each with the rank and pay of a colonel of infantry; brigadier-generals at the rate of one to a brigade of not less than four regiments; and division, brigade, and regimental staff officers not to exceed in numbers those provided for in the organization prescribed by the act approved  , "for the employment of volunteers," nor to be more highly compensated by  , whatever their nominal rank in the   service, than officers performing the same duties under that act.

The field officers of a regiment to be one colonel, one lieutenant-colonel, and one major, and the officers of a company to be one captain, one first and one second lieutenant.

When officers of the said   forces shall act in conjunction with officers of   of the same grade, the latter shall command the combined force.

All disbursements of money made to these troops or in consequence of their employment by   shall be made by disbursing officers of  , assigned by  , or specially appointed by the President for that purpose, who will make their requisitions upon the different supply departments in the same manner for the   forces as similar requisitions are made for other volunteer troops in the service of  .

The Secretary of War will cause any additional regulations that may be necessary for the purpose of promoting economy, insuring regularity of returns, and protecting   from fraudulent practices to be adopted and published for the government of the said   forces, and the same will be obeyed and observed by all in office under the authority of the State of  .

By order:

JULIUS P. GARESCHE,

Assistant Adjutant-General
