Executive Order  —Responsibilities of Federal Departments and Agencies With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of   and in order to help ensure that   supports and encourages volunteer community service, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Designation of a Liaison for  . (a) The head of each agency shall, within   after the date of this order, designate an officer or employee of such agency compensated at a level at or above the minimum level of pay of a member of   to serve under the authority of the head of the agency as the agency liaison for volunteer community service ( ).

(b) The   in each agency shall promote and support community service on a voluntary basis among Federal employees, including those approaching retirement; promote the use of skilled volunteers; and facilitate public recognition for volunteer community service.

(c) The head of each agency shall prescribe arrangements within the agency for support and supervision of the   that ensure high priority and substantial visibility for the function of the   within the agency under this order.

(d) Each executive agency shall provide its   with appropriate administrative support and other resources to meet the responsibilities of the   under this order.

 . 2. Goals and Responsibilities of the  . The   shall foster within the  's agency a culture of taking responsibility, service to others, and good citizenship. Toward that end, the   shall:

(a) identify, catalog, and review all activities of the agency that relate to volunteer community service, including, but not limited to rules, orders, grant programs, external relations, and other policies and practices, and make such recommendations to the head of the agency for adjustments as may be appropriate;

(b) actively work with   to promote volunteer community service among agency employees by providing information about community service opportunities;

(c) coordinate within the agency actions to facilitate public recognition for volunteer community service;

(d) promote, expand, and enhance skilled volunteer community service opportunities;

(e) work with   and the Director of   (OPM) to consider any appropriate changes in agency policies or practices that are not currently consistent with   guidance;

(f) coordinate the awarding of the President's   to recognize outstanding volunteer service by employees within the agency; and

(g) act as a liaison with  .

 . 3. Administrative Provisions. (a)   shall provide such information with respect to volunteer community service programs and activities and such advice and assistance as may be required by agencies in performing their functions under this order.

(b) Executive Order 12820 of  , is revoked.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) As used in this order:

(i) "agency" has the meaning of "executive agency" as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code; and

(ii)"USA  " means the Director of   established by section 4 of Executive Order  .

 . 4. Reporting Provisions. (a) Not   from the date of this order and annually thereafter, each agency   shall prepare and submit a report to   that includes a description of the agency's activities in performing its functions under this order.

(b) A  's first report under subsection (a) shall include   performance indicators and measurable objectives for agency action approved by the head of the agency. Each report filed thereafter under subsection (a) shall measure the agency's performance against the indicators and objectives approved by the head of the agency.

 . 5.  . This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party at law or in equity against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

This Executive order was published in   on  .
