Executive Order  —    and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and to recognize the unique educational and culturally related academic needs of     and   students consistent with the unique political and legal relationship of   with tribal governments, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Purpose.   has a unique legal relationship with   tribes and a special relationship with   entities as provided in the Constitution of the United States, treaties, and Federal statutes. This Administration is committed to continuing to work with these   recognized tribal governments on a governmentto-government basis, and supports tribal sovereignty and self-determination. It is the purpose of this order to assist     and   students in meeting the challenging student academic standards of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (Public Law 107–110) in a manner that is consistent with tribal traditions, languages, and cultures. This order builds on the innovations, reforms, and high standards of the No Child Left Behind Act of  , including: stronger accountability for results; greater flexibility in the use of Federal funds; more choices for parents; and an emphasis on research-based instruction that works.

 . 2. Interagency  . There is established   on     and   ( ) to oversee the implementation of this order.

(a)   members shall consist exclusively of the heads of the executive branch departments, agencies, or offices listed below:

(i)

 ;

(ii)

 ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)

 ;

(v)

 ;

(vi)

 ; and

(vii) such other executive branch departments, agencies, or offices as   of   may designate.

A member of   may designate, to perform the   functions of the member, an employee of the member's department, agency, or office who is either an officer of   appointed by the President, or a full-time employee serving in a position with pay equal to or greater than the minimum rate payable for GS–15 of the General Schedule. The   shall be led by   and the  , or their designees under this section, who shall serve as  .

(b) The function of   is to oversee the implementation of this order.   shall, within   of the date of this order, develop a   interagency plan that recommends initiatives, strategies, and ideas for future interagency actions that promote the purpose, as stated in section 1, of this order. In carrying out its activities under this order,   may consult with representatives of     and   tribes and organizations, in conformity with Executive Order  , and with   on Indian Education ( ). Any such consultations shall be for the purpose of obtaining information and advice concerning     and   education and shall be conducted in a manner that seeks individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice or deliberation.

 . 3. Study and Report. The Secretary of  , in coordination with  , shall conduct a   study of     and   education with the purpose of improving     and   students' ability to meet the challenging student academic standards of the No Child Left Behind Act of  .

(a) The study shall include, but not be limited to:

(i)

the compilation of comprehensive data on the academic achievement and progress of     and   students toward meeting the challenging student academic standards of the No Child Left Behind Act of  ;

(ii)

identification and dissemination of research-based practices and proven methods in raising academic achievement and, in particular, reading achievement, of     and   students;

(iii) assessment of the impact and role of native language and culture on the development of educational strategies to improve academic achievement;

(iv)

development of methods to strengthen early childhood education so that     and   students enter school ready to learn; and

(v)

development of methods to increase the high school graduation rate and develop pathways to college and the workplace for     and   students.

The Secretary of   shall develop an agenda, including proposed timelines and ongoing activities, for the conduct of the study, and shall make that agenda available to the public on the Internet.

(b) The Secretary of  , in coordination with  , shall issue a report to the President that shall:

(i)

provide the latest data available from the study;

(ii)

comprehensively describe the educational status and progress of     and   students with respect to meeting the goals outlined in the No Child Left Behind Act of   and any other student achievement goals the Secretary

of   or the Secretary of the   may deem necessary;

(iii) report on proven methods for improving     and   student academic achievement; and

(iv) update the   interagency plan outlined in section 2(b) of this order.

 . 4. Enhancement of Research Capabilities of  . The Secretary of   and the Secretary of the   shall consult with the entities set forth in section 2(a) of this order and tribally controlled colleges and universities to seek ways to develop and enhance the capacity of tribal governments, tribal universities and colleges, and schools and educational programs serving     and   students and communities to carry out, disseminate, and implement education research, as well as to develop related partnerships or collaborations with non-tribal universities, colleges, and research organizations.

 . 5.  . The Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , in collaboration with   Federal, State, tribal, and local government representatives, shall jointly convene a forum on the No Child Left Behind Act of   to identify means to enhance communication, collaboration, and cooperative strategies to improve the education of     and   students attending  ,  , tribal, and local schools.

 . 6. Administration.   shall provide appropriate administrative services and staff support to  . With the consent of  , other participating agencies may provide administrative support to  , to the extent permitted by law and consistent with their statutory authority.

 . 7. Termination.   established under section 2 of this order shall terminate not   from the date of this order, unless extended by the President.

 . 8. Consultation. The Secretary of   and Secretary of the   shall consult the Attorney General as appropriate on the implementation of this order, to ensure that such implementation affords the equal protection of the laws required by the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.

 . 9.  .

(a)

This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity, by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

(b)

Executive Order   of  , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
