Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), the Export Administration Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.) (the "Act"), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In view of the reauthorization and extension of the Act by Public Law 106– 508, Executive Order   of August 19,  , which continued the effect of export control regulations under  , is revoked, and the declaration of economic emergency is rescinded, as provided in this order.

 . 2. The revocation of Executive Order   shall not affect any violation of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action under that order that occurred during the period the order was in effect. All rules and regulations issued or continued in effect under the authority of IEEPA and Executive Order  , including those codified at 15 C.F.R. 730–74 ( ), and all orders, regulations, licenses, and other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect pursuant thereto, remain in full force and effect, as if issued, taken, or continued in effect pursuant to and as authorized by the Act or by other appropriate authority until amended or revoked by the proper authority. Nothing in this order shall affect the continued applicability of the provision for the administration of the Act and delegations of authority set forth in Executive Order   of July 7,  , Executive Order   of  , Executive Order   of  , as amended, Executive   of  , as amended, and Executive Order 13026 of  .

 . 3. All rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect pursuant to the authority of IEEPA and Executive Order   relating to the administration of section 38(e) of   (22 U.S.C. 2778(e)) shall remain in full force and effect until amended or revoked under proper authority.  

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
