Executive Order  —Blocking Property of the Former   Regime, Its Senior Officials and Their Family Members, and Taking Certain Other Actions
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, in view of   Resolution 1483 of  , and in order to take additional steps with respect to the situation in  ,

I,  , President of  , hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of  , to address the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of   posed by obstacles to the orderly reconstruction of  , the restoration and maintenance of peace and security in that country, and the development of political, administrative, and economic institutions in  . I find that the removal of   property from that country by certain senior officials of the former   regime and their immediate family members constitutes one of these obstacles. I further determine that   is engaged in armed hostilities and that it is in the interest of   to confiscate certain additional property of the former   regime, certain senior officials of the former regime, immediate family members of those officials, and controlled entities. I intend that such property, after all right, title, and interest in it has vested in  , shall be transferred to  . Such property shall be used to meet the humanitarian needs of the   people, for the economic reconstruction and repair of  's infrastructure, for the continued disarmament of  , for the costs of   civilian administration, and for other purposes benefiting the   people. I determine that such use would be in the interest of and for the benefit of  . I hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1), (3), and (4)), or regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property of the former   regime or its state bodies, corporations, or agencies, or of the following persons, that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(a)

the persons listed in the   to this order; and

(b)

persons determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  ,

(i)

to be senior officials of the former   regime or their immediate family members; or

(ii)

to be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any of the persons listed in the   to this order or determined to be subject to this order.

 . 2. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is authorized to confiscate property that is blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order and that he determines, in consultation with

the Secretary of  , to belong to a person, organization, or country that has planned, authorized, aided, or engaged in armed hostilities against  . All right, title, and interest in any property so confiscated shall vest in  . Such vested property shall promptly be transferred to  .

 . 3. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b)

Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4. For purposes of this order:

(a)

the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b)

the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c)

the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d)

the term "former   regime" means the   regime that governed   until on or  ;

(e)

the term "coalition authority" means   under the direction of its Administrator, and the military forces of  ,  , and their coalition partners present in   under the command or operational control of the Commander of  ; and

(f)

the term "Development Fund for Iraq" means the fund established on or  , on the books of  , by   responsible for the temporary governance of   and all accounts held for the fund or for   in the name of the fund.

 . 5. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C.

1702(b)(2)) by or to persons determined to be subject to the sanctions imposed under this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and expanded in scope in this order and would endanger   that are engaged in hostilities, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 6. For those persons listed in the   to this order or determined to be subject to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and expanded in scope in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 7. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 8. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is authorized to determine, subsequent to the issuance of this order, that circumstances no longer warrant inclusion of a person in the   to this order and that such person is therefore no longer covered within the scope of the order.

 . 9. Nothing in this order is intended to affect the continued effectiveness of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect heretofore or hereafter

under 31   chapter V, except as expressly terminated, modified, or suspended by or pursuant to this order.

 . 10. This order shall not apply to such property as is or may come under the control of the coalition authority in  . Nothing in this order is intended to affect dispositions of such property or other determinations by the coalition authority.

 . 11. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 12. This order is effective on 12:01

a.m. EDT on  .

 . 13. This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ,  ]

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it and its attached annex were published in   on  . This item was not received in time for publication in the appropriate issue.
