Executive Order 13352—Facilitation of Cooperative Conservation
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this order is to ensure that  , and   and   implement laws relating to the environment and natural resources in a manner that promotes cooperative conservation, with an emphasis on appropriate inclusion of local participation in Federal decisionmaking, in accordance with their respective agency missions, policies, and regulations.

 . 2. Definition. As used in this order, the term "cooperative conservation" means actions that relate to use, enhancement, and enjoyment of natural resources, protection of the environment, or both, and that involve collaborative activity among  ,  , local, and tribal governments, private forprofit and nonprofit institutions, other nongovernmental entities and individuals.

 . 3.  . To carry out the purpose of this order, the Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, and   and the Administrator of   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations and in coordination with each other as appropriate:

(a)

carry out the programs, projects, and activities of the agency that they respectively head that implement laws relating to the environment and natural resources in a manner that:

(i) facilitates cooperative conservation;

(ii)

takes appropriate account of and respects the interests of persons with ownership or other legally recognized interests in land and other natural resources;

(iii) properly accommodates local participation in Federal decisionmaking; and

(iv) provides that the programs, projects, and activities are consistent with protecting public health and safety;

(b)

report   to the Chairman of   on actions taken to implement this order; and

(c)

provide funding to   (42

U.S.C. 4375) for the Conference for which section 4 of this order provides.

 . 4.  . The Chairman of   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations:

(a)

convene not   after the date of this order, and thereafter at such times as the Chairman deems appropriate,  ) to facilitate the exchange of information and advice relating to (i) cooperative conservation and (ii) means for achievement of the purpose of this order; and

(b)

ensure that the   obtains information in a manner that seeks from   participants their individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice or deliberation.

 . 5. General Provision. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers, employees or agents, or any other person.  

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:31 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
