Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to further strengthen protections for the rights of   in the effective performance of national security and homeland security functions, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy.   has a solemn obligation, and shall continue fully, to protect the legal rights of all  , including freedoms, civil liberties, and information privacy guaranteed by Federal law, in the effective performance of national security and homeland security functions.

 . 2. Establishment of Board. To advance the policy set forth in section 1 of this order (Policy), there is hereby established the President's Board on Safeguarding Americans' Civil Liberties (Board). The Board shall be part of   for administrative purposes.

 . 3. Functions. The Board shall:

(a)

(i) advise the President on effective means to implement the Policy, and

(ii) keep the President informed of the implementation of the Policy;

(b)

periodically request reports from   departments and agencies relating to policies and procedures that ensure implementation of the Policy;

(c)

recommend to the President policies, guidelines and other administrative actions, technologies, and legislation, as necessary to implement the Policy;

(d)

at the request of the head of any   or agency, unless the  , after consultation with the Vice Chair, declines the request, promptly review and provide advice on a policy or action of that department or agency that implicates the Policy;

(e)

obtain information and advice relating to the Policy from representatives of entities or individuals outside the executive branch of   in a manner that seeks their individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice or deliberation;

(f)

refer, consistent with section 535 of title 28, United States Code, credible information pertaining to possible violations of law relating to the Policy by any   employee or official to the appropriate office for prompt investigation;

(g)

take steps to enhance cooperation and coordination among   departments and agencies in the implementation of the Policy, including but not limited to working with the Director of   and other officers of   to review and assist in

the coordination of guidelines and policies concerning national security and homeland security efforts, such as information collection and sharing; and

(h) undertake other efforts to protect the legal rights of all  , including freedoms, civil liberties, and information privacy guaranteed by Federal law, as the President may direct.

Upon the recommendation of the  , the Attorney General or the Secretary of   may establish one or more committees that include individuals from outside the executive branch of  , in accordance with applicable law, to advise the   on specific issues relating to the Policy. Any such committee shall carry out its functions separately from the  .

 . 4. Membership and Operation. The   shall consist exclusively of the following:

(a)

the Deputy Attorney General, who shall serve as  ;

(b)

the Under Secretary for  , who shall serve as Vice Chair;

(c)

the Assistant Attorney General (Civil Rights Division);

(d)

the Assistant Attorney General (Office of Legal Policy);

(e)

the Counsel for Intelligence Policy,  ;

(f)

the Chair of  ,  ;

(g)

the Assistant Secretary for  ,  ;

(h)

the Assistant Secretary (Policy),  ,  ;

(i)

the Officer for Civil Rights and  ,  ;

(j)

the Privacy Officer,  ;

(k)

the Under Secretary for  ;

(l)

the Assistant Secretary ( ),  ;

(m)

 ;

(n)

the Deputy Director of  ;

(o)

 ,  ;

(p)

 ,  ;

(q)

the Under Secretary of  ;

(r)

   ;

(s)

   ;

(t)

the Director,  ; and

(u)

such other officers of   as the Deputy Attorney General may from time to time designate.

A member of the   may designate, to perform the   subgroup functions of the member, any person who is part of such member's department or agency and who is either (i) an officer of   appointed by the President, or

(ii) a member of   or  . The  , after consultation with the Vice Chair, shall convene and preside at meetings of the  , determine its agenda, direct its work, and, as appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, establish and direct subgroups of the   that shall consist exclusively of members of  . The   may invite, in his discretion, officers or employees of other departments or agencies to participate in the work of the Board. The   shall convene the first meeting of the   within   after the date of this order and shall thereafter convene meetings of the Board at such times as the  , after consultation with the Vice Chair, deems appropriate. The Deputy Attorney General shall designate an official of   to serve as the Executive Director of the Board.

 . 5. Cooperation. To the extent permitted by law, all   departments and

agencies shall cooperate with the   and provide the   with such information, support, and assistance as the  , through the  , may request.

 . 6. Administration. Consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the funding and administrative support for the   necessary to implement this order.

 . 7.  . (a) This order shall not be construed to impair or otherwise affect the authorities of any department, agency, instrumentality, officer, or employee of   under applicable law, including the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)

This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable laws and   concerning protection of information, including those for the protection of intelligence sources and methods, law enforcement information, and classified national security information, and the Privacy Act of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a).

(c)

This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by a party against  , or any of its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, entities, officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
