Executive Order  —Providing an Order of Succession Within  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including   of  , 5 U.S.C.   et seq., it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1. Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this order, the officers named in section 2, in the order listed, shall act as, and perform the duties of, the office of Secretary of   (Secretary) during any period in which the Secretary has died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary.

 . 2. Order of Succession.

(a) Deputy Secretary of  ;

(b) Deputy Secretary of  ;

(c) Under Secretary of   designated for political affairs pursuant to section 2651a(b) of title 22, United States Code;

(d) Under Secretary of   designated for management affairs pursuant to section 2651a(b) of title 22, United States Code;

(e) The remaining Under Secretaries of State, in the order in which they shall have taken the oath of office as such;

(f) Assistant Secretaries of State designated for regional bureaus pursuant to section 2651a(c) of title 22, United States Code, in the order in which they shall have taken the oath of office as such;

(g) The following officers, in the order in which they shall have taken the oath of office as such:

(1) Remaining Assistant Secretaries of State;

(2) Coordinator for  ;

(3) Director General of  ; and

(4) Legal Adviser;

(h)   Representative to   ( );

(i) Deputy   Representative to   ( );

(j) The following other   to   ( ), in the order in which they shall have taken the oath of office as such:

(1) United States Representative to   for  ;

(2) United States Representative to   on  ; and

(3) Alternate United States Representative to   in  ;

(k) The following  , in the order listed:

(1)   Ambassador to  ;

(2)   Ambassador to  ;

(3)   Ambassador to  ;

(4)   Ambassador to  ;

(5)   Ambassador to  ; and

(6)   Ambassador to  ;

(l) The following officers, in the order in which they shall have taken the oath of office as such:

(1) United States Ambassadors at Large;

(2) Counselor; and

(3) Special Representatives of the President; and

(m) The remaining Chiefs of Mission, in the order in which they shall have taken the oath of office as such.

 . 3. Exceptions.

(a) No individual who has not been appointed by the President by and with the consent of the   shall act as Secretary pursuant to this order.

(b) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)-(m) in an acting capacity shall act as Secretary pursuant to this order.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by   of  , 5 U.S.C.   et seq., to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary.

(d) A successor office, intended to be the equivalent of an office identified in section 2 of this order, shall be deemed to be the position identified in section 2 for purposes of this order.

 . 4. Executive Order  , is hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 
