Executive Order  —Presidents Commission on  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and to ensure the efficient operation of   while minimizing the financial exposure of the   taxpayers, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is established   on  ).

 . 2. Membership. Commission shall be composed of nine members appointed by the President. The President shall designate two members of the   to serve as  .

 . 3. Mission. (a) The mission of the   shall be to examine the state of  , and to prepare and submit to the President a report articulating a proposed vision for the future of   and recommending the legislative and administrative reforms needed to ensure the viability of postal services.

(b)

In fulfilling its mission, the   shall consider the following issues and such other issues relating to   as the   determines appropriate:

(i)

the role of   in   and beyond;

(ii)

the flexibility that   should have to change prices, control costs, and adjust service in response to financial, competitive, or market pressures;

(iii) the rigidities in cost or service that limit the efficiency of the postal system;

(iv)

the ability of  , over the long term, to maintain universal mail delivery at affordable rates and cover its unfunded liabilities with minimum exposure to the   taxpayers;

(v)

the extent to which postal monopoly restrictions continue to advance the public interest under evolving market conditions, and the extent to which   competes with private sector services; and

(vi)

the most appropriate governance and oversight structure for  .

 . 4. Administration. (a)   or any organizational entity subject to the direction of the Secretary of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide administrative support and funding for the  . The   is established within   for administrative purposes only.

(b)

Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . Members appointed from among private citizens of  , however, while engaged in the work of the  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707), to the extent funds are available.

(c)

The   shall have a staff headed by an Executive Director.

(d)

The Commission, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the  , may establish subcommittees, consisting of   members, as appropriate, to aid in its work.

(e)

Consistent with such guidance as the President or, on the President's behalf, the Secretary of the  , may provide, the   shall exchange information with and obtain advice from Members of  ;  , local, and tribal officials; commercial, nonprofit, and residential users of  ; and others, as appropriate, including through public hearings.

(f)

Insofar as  , as amended, may apply to  , any functions of the President under that Act, except for those in section 6 of that Act, shall be performed by the Secretary of the  , in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

(g) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

 . 5. Report. The   shall submit its report, consistent with its mission set forth in section 3 of this order, to the President, through the Secretary of the  , not  .

 . 6.  . (a) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and it is not intended to, and does not create, any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

(b) The   shall terminate   after submitting its report and in no event  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
