Executive Order 13458—Implementation of the Protocol Additional to the Agreement Between   and   for   in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (the "Act")(Public Law 109-401) and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to facilitate implementation of the Act and the Protocol Additional to the Agreement between   and   for   in   (the "Additional Protocol"), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The Secretaries of State, Defense, Commerce, and  , the Attorney General,  , and heads of such other agencies as appropriate, each shall issue, amend, or revise, and enforce such regulations, orders, directives, instructions, or procedures as are necessary to implement the   and   obligations under the Additional Protocol.

 . 2. The Secretary of  , with the assistance, as necessary, of the Attorney General, is authorized to obtain and to execute warrants pursuant to section 223 of the Act for the purpose of gaining complementary access to locations subject to regulations issued by   pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 3. The Secretaries of State, Defense, Commerce, and  , the Attorney General,  , and heads of such other departments and agencies as appropriate, are authorized to carry out, consistent with the Act and in accordance with subsequent directives, appropriate functions that are not otherwise assigned in the Act and are necessary to implement the   and   obligations under the Additional Protocol. The Secretary of   shall perform the function of providing notifications or information to the   when required by the Act.

 . 4. This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

 . 5. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in   on  .
