Executive Order  —Clarification of Certain Executive Orders Blocking Property and Prohibiting Certain Transactions
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50

U.S.C.   et seq.) ( ), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , in order to clarify the steps taken in Executive Order  , as amended by Executive Order  ; and Executive Order   of  , as amended by Executive Order  , and Executive   of  , in particular with respect to the implementation of section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)), hereby order:

Section 1. Section 4 of Executive Order   is hereby amended to read as follows:

" . 4. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50

U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)), by, to, or for the benefit of, any persons determined to be subject to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and would endanger   that are in a situation where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order. Furthermore, I hereby determine that   of 2000 ( , Public Law 106–387) shall not affect the imposition or the continuation of the imposition of any unilateral agricultural sanction or unilateral medical sanction on any person determined to be subject to this order because imminent involvement of   in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances."

Sec. 2. Section 3 of Executive Order   is hereby amended to read as follows:

" . 3. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50

U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)), by, to, or for the benefit of, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1."

 . 3. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and the UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

(b) Nothing contained in this order shall relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

(c) Amendments to Executive Orders made by this order shall take effect as of the date of this order.

 . 4. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 5. This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:57 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
