Executive Order  —Assigning Foreign Affairs Functions and Implementing the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of   (ATDA Act), as amended, the Foreign Assistance Act of   (Foreign Assistance Act), as amended, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Functions to be   by the Secretary of the  . (a) The Secretary of the   is hereby designated to perform the functions of the President under the following provisions of law:

(1) sections 603(b), 604(a), and 611 of the ATDA Act (7 U.S.C. 1738b(b), 1738c(a), and  ); and

(2) sections 703, 704(a), 805(b), 806(a), 807(a), 808(a), and 812 of the Foreign Assistance Act (22 U.S.C.  , 2430c(a), 2431c(b), 2431d(a), 2431e(a), 2431f(a), and 2431j).

(b) The Secretary of the   shall: (1)(A) make determinations under the provisions of sections 703(b) and 805(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act in accordance with any recommendations received from the Secretary of   with respect to subsections 703(a)(1)–703(a)(4) and the corresponding recommendations under section 805(a)(1) of that Act; and

(B) make determinations under the provisions of section 805(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act in accordance with any recommendations from    ) with respect to section 803(5)(B) of that Act;

(2) exercise the functions under the provisions listed in section 1(a)(1) of this order in consultation with the Secretary of   and with  ) established by Executive Order   of  ;

(3) consult, as appropriate, with the Secretary of  ,  , the  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Administrator of  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , and the Chairman of   in the performance of all other functions under the provisions listed in section 1(a) of this order.

 . 2. Functions to be   by the Secretary of  . (a) The Secretary of   is hereby designated to perform the functions of the President under sections 607 and 614 of the ATDA Act (   m) and section 813(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act (22 U.S.C.  ).

(b) The Secretary of   shall consult, as appropriate, with the Secretary of the   and  , in the performance of functions under the provisions listed in subsection 2(a) of this order.

(c) The Secretary of   shall consult, as appropriate, in the performance of functions under section 607 of the ATDA Act, with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Chairman of  , and the heads of such other executive departments and agencies as the Secretary of   determines appropriate.

(d) The Secretary of   is hereby designated to receive advice or supplemental views on the President's behalf consistent with the following provisions of law:

(1) section 610(c)(1) of the ATDA Act (7 U.S.C. 1738i(c)(1)); and

(2) section 813(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act (22 U.S.C.  ).

 . 3. Recommendation by  . The Administrator of USAID shall make recommendations with respect to 803(5)(B) of the Foreign Assistance Act (22 U.S.C. 2431a(5)(B), in cooperation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  .

 . 4. Government Appointees to the Enterprise for  .

(a) Pursuant to section 610(b)(1)(A) of the ATDA Act (7 U.S.C. 1738i(b)(1)(A) and section 811(b)(1)(A) and (b)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act (22 U.S.C. 2431i(b)(1)(A) and (b)(2)), the following officers or employees of   are hereby designated to serve as representatives on the Enterprise for  : (i) the designee of the Secretary of  , who shall be the chairperson of the Board; (ii) the designee of the Secretary of the  ; (iii) two designees of the Secretary of  , one of whom shall be an officer or employee of   with experience in international forestry matters, and the other shall be an officer or employee of  ) the designee of the Secretary of the  ; (v) the designee of  ; (vi) the designee of  , who shall be the vice chairperson of the  ; and (vii) the designee of the Chairman of  .

(b) The Board shall permit the following officers or employees of   to attend and observe a   meeting: (i) a designee of the Secretary of  ; and (ii) a designee of the head of any executive department or agency, if the meeting will relate to matters relevant to the activities of such executive department or agency.

(c) An officer of   listed in subsections 4(a) and 4(b) shall make a designation for purposes of those subsections in writing submitted to the Secretary of   and shall change any such designation in the same manner. The authority to make such a designation may not be delegated.

(d) The Secretary of   may, after consultation with the officers of   listed in subsection 4(b) and the Attorney General, as appropriate, establish such procedures as may be necessary to provide for the governance and administration of the  .

 . 5. Guidance for the Performance of Functions. In performing functions under this order, officers of  :

(a) shall ensure that all actions taken by them are consistent with the President's constitutional authority to (i) conduct the foreign affairs of  , including the commencement, conduct, and termination of negotiations with foreign countries and international organizations, (ii) withhold information the disclosure of which could impair the foreign relations, the national security, the deliberative processes of the  , or the performance of the  's constitutional duties, (iii) recommend for congressional consideration such measures as the President may judge necessary or expedient, and (iv) supervise the unitary executive branch;

(b) may further assign functions assigned by this order to officers of any department or agency within the executive branch to the extent permitted by law except as provided in subsection 4(c) of this order and such further assignment shall be published in  ; and

(c) shall consult the Attorney General as appropriate in implementing this section.

 . 6. Revocation of Executive Orders. The following   are hereby revoked:

(a) Executive Order   of  ;

(b) Executive Order   of  ;

(c) Executive Order   of  ; and

(d) Executive Order  .

 . 7.  . This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
