Executive Order  —Implementing the Clean Diamond Trade Act
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  – 19) (the "Act"),  , as amended (50

U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in view of the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order  , and expanded in scope in Executive Order   of  ,

I,  , President of  , note that, in response to the role played by the illicit trade in diamonds in fueling conflict and human rights violations in  , the President declared a national emergency in Executive Order   and imposed restrictions on the importation of rough diamonds into   from  . I expanded the scope of that emergency in Executive Order   and prohibited absolutely the importation of rough diamonds from  . I further note that representatives of

  and numerous other countries announced in the Interlaken Declaration of  , the launch of   ( ) for rough diamonds, under which Participants prohibit the importation of rough diamonds from, or the exportation of rough diamonds to, a non-Participant and require that shipments of rough diamonds from or to a   be controlled through the  .   authorizes the President to take steps to implement the  . Therefore, in order to implement the Act, to harmonize Executive Orders   with the Act, to address further threats to international peace and security posed by the trade in conflict diamonds, and to avoid undermining the legitimate diamond trade, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Prohibitions. Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to  , the following are, except to the extent a waiver issued under section 4(b) of the Act applies, prohibited:

(a)

the importation into, or exportation from,   on or after  , of any rough diamond, from whatever source, unless the rough diamond has been controlled through the  ;

(b)

any transaction by a   person anywhere, or any transaction that occurs in whole or in part within  , that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this section; and

(c)

any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions of this section.

 . 2. Assignment of Functions. (a) The functions of the President under the Act are assigned as follows:

(i)

sections 4(b), 5(c), 6(b),  , and 12 to the Secretary of  ; and

(ii)

sections 5(a) and 5(b) to the Secretary of the  .

(b)

The Secretary of   and the Secretary of the   may reassign any of these functions to other officers, officials, departments, and agencies within the executive branch, consistent with applicable law.

(c) In performing the function of the President under section 11 of the Act, the Secretary of   shall establish the coordinating committee as part of   for administrative purposes only, and shall, consistent with applicable law, provide administrative support to the coordinating committee. In the performance of functions assigned by subsection 2(a) of this order or by the Act, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of   shall consult the coordinating committee, as appropriate.

 . 3. Amendments to  . (a) Section 1 of Executive Order  , is revised to read as follows:

"Section 1. Except to the extent provided by section 2 of this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the importation into, or exportation from,   of any rough diamond from  , on or after  , is prohibited."

(b)

Section 2 of Executive Order   is revised to read as follows: "Sec. 2. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order shall not apply to the importation or exportation of any rough diamond that has been controlled through  ."

(c)

Sections 4(c), (d), and (e) of Executive Order   are deleted, and the word "and" is added after the semicolon at the end of section 4(a).

(d)

Section 1 of Executive Order   of  , is revised to read as follows: "Section 1. Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the direct or indirect importation into   of all rough diamonds from  , whether or not such diamonds originated in  , on or after  , is prohibited."

 . 4. Definitions. For the purposes of this order and Executive Order  , the definitions set forth in section 3 of the Act shall apply, and the term "Kimberley Process

Certification Scheme" shall not be construed to include any changes to the   after  .

 . 5. General Provisions. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 6.   and  . (a) Sections 1 and 3 of this order are effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  . The remaining provisions of this order are effective immediately.

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:18 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
