Executive Order  — ,  , and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The functions of the President in making certain waivers, determinations, certifications, recommendations, and reports to the   are assigned as follows:

(a) The Secretary of   is authorized to make waivers, determinations, certifications, and recommendations, and to undertake related reporting, as described in: (i) Section 402(d)(1) of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C. 2432(d)(1)), with respect to the extension of   waivers; (ii) Section 609 of Division A of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act,   (Public Law 105–277) as continued in effect by section 612 of Division B of the Consolidated Appropriations Act,   (Public Law 108–199) with respect to cooperation related to persons missing in action and prisoners of war; and (iii) Section 102(a)(2) of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 2799aa–1(a)), with respect to any Presidential determination under section 102(a)(1) that is also the subject of a determination and certification by the President pursuant to section 102(a)(2).

(b)   Representative shall submit the report relating to sub-Saharan Africa under section 106 of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (Public Law 106–200, title 1).

 . 2. The functions of the President in making certifications to the   consistent with the resolution of advice and consent to ratification of   adopted by the   on   (Resolution) are assigned as follows:

(a) The Secretary of   is authorized to make a certification consistent with section 2(7)(C)(i) of the Resolution with respect to the effectiveness and viability of  .

(b) The Secretary of   is authorized to make a certification consistent with section 2(9) of the Resolution with respect to the interests of certain firms in  .

 . 3. Executive Order   of  , as amended, is further amended, in section 1–100(a), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (12) and inserting a semicolon, and by inserting the following new paragraphs:

"(13) title II of  , and Related Programs Appropriations Act,   (Public Law 107–115), under the heading "Assistance for the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union," in subsections (g)(4) and (6);";

"(14) section 512 of Division D of the Consolidated Appropriations Act,   (Public Law 108–199);";

"(15) sections 5(c) and 6 of   of   (Public Law 99–415), as amended.".

 . 4. Executive Order   of  , is amended in section 1(b)(3) by adding after the phrase "Section 2105(a)(1)" the terms "(A) and (C)".

 . 5. References in this order to provisions of any Act shall be deemed to include references to any provision of law that is the same or substantially the same as such provisions.

 . 6. In carrying out sections 1 and 2 of this order, officers of   shall ensure that all actions taken by them are consistent with the President's constitutional authority to: (a) conduct the foreign affairs of  ; (b) withhold information the disclosure of which could impair the foreign relations, the national security, the deliberative processes of the  , or the performance of the  's constitutional duties; (c) recommend for congressional consideration such measures as the President may judge necessary and expedient; and (d) supervise the unitary executive branch.

 . 7. Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

 . 8. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
