Executive Order  —  Sharing
 
 

By the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of  , including sections 892 and 893 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (the "Act") (6

U.S.C. 482 and 483) and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Assignment of Functions. (a) The functions of the President under section 892 of the Act are assigned to the Secretary of   (the "Secretary"), except the functions of the President under subsections 892(a)(2) and  ).

(b)

Subject to section 2(b) of this order, the function of the President under section 893 of the Act is assigned to the Secretary.

(c)

Procedures issued by the Secretary in the performance of the function of the President under section 892(a)(1) of the Act shall apply to all agencies of  . Such procedures shall specify that the President may make, or may authorize another officer of   to make, exceptions to the procedures.

(d)

The function of the President under section  ) of the Act is delegated to the Attorney General and the Director of  , to be exercised jointly.

(e)

In performing the functions assigned to the Secretary by subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall coordinate with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , the   of  , and as the Secretary deems appropriate, other officers of  .

(f)

A determination, under the procedures issued by the Secretary in the performance of the function of the President under section 892(a)(1) of the Act, as to whether, or to what extent, an individual who falls within the category of "State and local personnel" as defined in sections  ) and (f)(4) of the Act shall have access to information classified pursuant to Executive Order   of  , as amended, is a discretionary determination and shall be conclusive and not subject to review or appeal.

 . 2. Rules of Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(a)

the authority of the Director of   under section 103(c)(7) of the National Security Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. 403–3(c)(7)), to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure;

(b)

the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals; or

(c)

the provisions of    , as amended, and   of  , as amended.

 . 3. General Provision. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, against  , its departments, agencies, or other entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:18 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
