Executive Order  —Preserve America
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (16 U.S.C.

470 et seq.) ( ) and   (42 U.S.C.   et seq.), it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Statement of Policy. It is the policy of   to provide leadership in preserving  's heritage by actively advancing the protection, enhancement, and contemporary use of the historic properties owned by  , and by promoting intergovernmental cooperation and partnerships for the preservation and use of historic properties. The   shall recognize and manage the historic properties in its ownership as assets that can support department and agency missions while contributing to the vitality and economic well-being of the  's communities and fostering a broader appreciation for the development of   and its underlying values. Where consistent with executive branch department and agency missions, governing law, applicable preservation standards, and where appropriate, executive branch departments and agencies ("agency" or "agencies") shall advance this policy through the protection and continued use of the historic properties owned by  , and by pursuing partnerships with   and local governments,   tribes, and the private sector to promote the preservation of the unique cultural heritage of communities and of the   and to realize the economic benefit that these properties can provide. Agencies shall maximize efforts to integrate the policies, procedures, and practices of the   and this order into their program activities in order to efficiently and effectively advance historic preservation objectives in the pursuit of their missions.

 . 2. Building Preservation Partnerships. When carrying out its mission activities, each agency, where consistent with its mission and governing authorities, and where appropriate, shall seek partnerships with   and local governments,   tribes, and the private sector to promote local economic development and vitality through the use of historic properties in a manner that contributes to the long-term preservation and productive use of those properties. Each agency shall examine its policies, procedures,

and capabilities to ensure that its actions encourage, support, and foster public-private initiatives and investment in the use, reuse, and rehabilitation of historic properties, to the extent such support is not inconsistent with other provisions of law, the Secretary of   and  , and essential national department and agency mission requirements.

 . 3.  . (a) Accurate information on the state of   owned historic properties is essential to achieving the goals of this order and to promoting community economic development through local partnerships. Each agency with real property management responsibilities shall prepare an assessment of the current status of its inventory of historic properties required by section 110(a)(2) of the   (16 U.S.C. 470h– 2(a)(2)), the general condition and management needs of such properties, and the steps underway or planned to meet those management needs. The assessment shall also include an evaluation of the suitability of the agency's types of historic properties to contribute to community economic development initiatives, including heritage tourism, taking into account agency mission needs, public access considerations, and the long-term preservation of the historic properties.  , each covered agency shall complete a report of the assessment and make it available to the Chairman of  ) and the Secretary of the   (Secretary).

(b)

No later than September 30, 2004, each agency with real property management responsibilities shall review its regulations, management policies, and operating procedures for compliance with sections 110 and 111 of the   (16  ) and make the results of its review available to the   and the Secretary. If the agency determines that its regulations, management policies, and operating procedures are not in compliance with those authorities, the agency shall make amendments or revisions to bring them into compliance.

(c)

Each agency with real property management responsibilities shall, by  , and   thereafter, prepare a report on its progress in identifying, protecting, and using historic properties in its ownership and make the report available to the   and the Secretary. The   shall incorporate this data into a report on the state of   historic properties and their contribution to local economic development and submit this report to the President by  , and   thereafter.

(d)

Agencies may use existing information gathering and reporting systems to fulfill the assessment and reporting requirements of subsections 3(a)–(c) of this order. To assist agencies, the  , in consultation with the Secretary, shall, by  , prepare advisory guidelines for agencies to use at their discretion.

(e)

No later than June 30,  , the head of each agency shall designate a senior policy level official to have policy oversight responsibility for the agency's historic preservation program and notify the   and the Secretary of the designation. This senior official shall be an assistant secretary, deputy assistant secretary, or the equivalent, as appropriate to the agency organization. This official, or a subordinate employee reporting directly to the official, shall serve as the agency's   in accordance with section 110(c) of the  . The senior official shall ensure that   is qualified consistent with guidelines established by the Secretary for that position and has access to adequate expertise and support to carry out the duties of the position.

 . 4.  . (a) Each agency shall ensure that the management of historic properties in its ownership is conducted in a manner that promotes the long-term preservation and use of those properties as Federal assets and, where consistent with agency missions, governing law, and the nature of the properties, contributes to the local community and its economy.

(b)

Where consistent with agency missions and the Secretary of   and  ,

and where appropriate, agencies shall cooperate with communities to increase opportunities for public benefit from, and access to,   owned historic properties.

(c)

The   is directed to use its existing authority to encourage and accept donations of money, equipment, and other resources from public and private parties to assist other agencies in the preservation of historic properties in Federal ownership to fulfill the goals of the   and this order.

(d)

 , working with the   and in consultation with other agencies, shall make available existing materials and information for education, training, and awareness of historic property stewardship to ensure that all   personnel have access to information and can develop the skills necessary to continue the productive use of   owned historic properties while meeting their stewardship responsibilities.

(e)

The  , in consultation with   and other agencies, shall encourage and recognize exceptional achievement by such agencies in meeting the goals of the   and this order. By  , the   shall submit to the President and the heads of agencies recommendations to further stimulate initiative, creativity, and efficiency in the Federal stewardship of historic properties.

 . 5. Promoting Preservation Through Heritage Tourism.

(a)

To the extent permitted by law and within existing resources, the Secretary of Commerce, working with the   and other agencies, shall assist  ,   tribes, and local communities in promoting the use of historic properties for heritage tourism and related economic development in a manner that contributes to the long-term preservation and productive use of those properties. Such assistance shall include efforts to strengthen and improve heritage tourism activities throughout the country as they relate to   owned historic properties and significant natural assets on Federal lands.

(b)

Where consistent with agency missions and governing law, and where appropriate, agencies shall use historic properties in their ownership in conjunction with  , tribal,

and local tourism programs to foster viable economic partnerships, including, but not limited to, cooperation and coordination with tourism officials and others with interests in the properties.

 . 6.  .

Nothing in this order shall be construed to require any agency to take any action or disclose any information that would conflict with or compromise national and homeland security goals, policies, programs, or activities.

 . 7. Definitions. For the purposes of this order, the term "historic property" means any prehistoric or historic district, site, building, structure, and object included on or eligible for inclusion on   in accordance with section 301(5) of the   (16 U.S.C. 470w(5)). The term "heritage tourism" means the business and practice of attracting and accommodating visitors to a place or area based especially on the unique or special aspects of that locale's history, landscape (including trail systems), and culture. The terms "Federally owned" and "in Federal ownership," and similar terms, as used in this order, do not include properties acquired by agencies as a result of foreclosure or similar actions and that are held for a period of  .

 . 8.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and it is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.  

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
