Executive Order  —Presidents Commission To Strengthen Social Security
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5

U.S.C. App.), and to preserve   for senior   while building wealth for younger  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is established   to  ).

 . 2. Membership. The   shall be composed of sixteen members appointed by the President, of which no more than eight shall be members of the same political party. The President shall also designate two members of the   to act as co-chairs. The two co-chairs shall not be members of the same political party.

 . 3. Mission. The mission of the   shall be to submit to the President bipartisan recommendations to modernize and restore fiscal soundness to the   system according to the following principles: (a) Modernization must not change   benefits for retirees or nearretirees;

(b)

The entire   surplus must be dedicated to   only;

(c)

  payroll taxes must not be increased;

(d)

Government must not invest   funds in the stock market;

(e)

Modernization must preserve   disability and survivors components; and

(f)

Modernization must include individually controlled, voluntary personal retirement accounts, which will augment the   safety net.

 . 4. Administration. (a)   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide administrative support and funding for the  .

(b)

Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . Members appointed from among private citizens of the

 , however, while engaged in the work of the  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707), to the extent funds are available.

(c)

The   shall have a staff headed by an Executive Director, who shall be selected by the President. To the extent permitted by law, office space, analytical support, and additional staff support for the   shall be provided by executive branch departments and agencies as directed by the President.

(d)

The   shall receive input from and provide briefings to the  , by procedures determined by the President in consultation with the congressional leadership and the  . Public hearings shall be held at the call of the co-chairs, in consultation with the President.

(e)

The functions of the President under  , as amended, except for those in section 6 of that Act, that are applicable to the  , shall be performed by  , in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

 . 5. Reports. The   shall submit reports to the President as follows:

(a)

Interim Report. An interim report shall describe the challenges facing the   system and the criteria by which the   will evaluate reform proposals. These criteria may include but are not limited to: solvency, sustainability, benefit adequacy, fair treatment across generations and demographic groups, total   cost obligations, net impact on the   budget, impact upon national savings, impact on workforce participation, impact on employer-provided pension plans, rates of return, and protections against poverty.

(b)

Final Report. The final report will set forth the  's recommendations, in accordance with its stated mission in section 3 of this order, regarding how to strengthen   with personal accounts. The   shall submit its final report during  . The submission date shall

be determined by the co-chairs in consultation with the President.

 . 6. Termination. The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:58 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
