Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to enhance the national security, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. In order to enhance the national security of  , including preventing, protecting against, responding to, and recovering from natural and manmade disasters, such as acts of terrorism, it is the policy of   to promote the education, training, and experience of current and future professionals in national security positions (security professionals) in executive departments and agencies (agencies).

 . 2. National Strategy for Professional Development. Not   after the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for   and   ( /CT), in coordination with the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), shall submit to the President for approval a National Strategy for   (National Strategy). The National Strategy shall set forth a framework that will provide to security professionals access to integrated education, training, and professional experience opportunities for the purpose of enhancing their mission-related knowledge, skills, and experience and thereby improve their capability to safeguard the security of the Nation. Such opportunities shall be provided across organizations, levels of government, and incident management disciplines, as appropriate.

 . 3.  . (a) There is established   (Steering Committee), which shall facilitate the implementation of  . Not   after the approval of   by the President, the   shall submit to the  /CT and the APNSA an implementation plan (plan) for  , and annually thereafter shall submit to the  /CT and the APNSA a status report on the implementation of the plan and any recommendations for changes to  .

(b) The   shall consist exclusively of the following members (or their designees who shall be full-time officers or employees of the members' respective agencies):

(i)     the Director of  , who shall serve as  ;

(ii)    the Secretary of  ;

(iii)   the Secretary of the  ;

(iv)    the Secretary of  ;

(v)     the Attorney General;

(vi)    the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vii)   the Secretary of  ;

(viii)  the Secretary of  ;

(ix)    the Secretary of  ;

(x)     the Secretary of  ;

(xi)    the Secretary of  ;

(xii)   the Secretary of  ;

(xiii)  the Secretary of  ;

( )   the Director of  ;

(xv)    the Director of  ; and

(xvi)   such other officers of   as the Chair of   may designate from time to time.

(c) The   shall coordinate, to the maximum extent practicable, national security professional development programs and guidance issued by the heads of agencies in order to ensure an integrated approach to such programs.

(d) The Chair of the Steering Committee shall convene and preside at the meetings of  , set its agenda, coordinate its work, and, as appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, establish subcommittees of   that shall consist exclusively of members of   (or their designees under subsection (b) of this section), and such other full-time or permanent part-time officers or employees of   as the   may designate.

 . 4. Responsibilities. The head of each agency with national security functions shall:

(a) identify and enhance existing national security professional development programs and infrastructure, and establish new programs as necessary, in order to fulfill their respective missions to educate, train, and employ security professionals consistent with   and, to the maximum extent practicable, the plan and related guidance from  ; and

(b) cooperate with   and provide such information, support, and assistance as the Chair of the Steering Committee may request from time to time.

 . 5.  . (a) Except for employees excluded by law, and subject to subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the Director of  , after consultation with  , shall: (i)     consistent with applicable merit-based hiring and advancement principles, lead the establishment of a national security professional development program in accordance with   and the plan that provides for interagency and intergovernmental assignments and fellowship opportunities and provides for professional development guidelines for career advancement; and (ii)    issue to agencies rules and guidance or apply existing rules and guidance relating to the establishment of national security professional development programs to implement   and the plan;

(b) The Secretary of   shall issue rules or guidance on professional development programs for   military personnel, including interagency and intergovernmental assignments and fellowship opportunities, to implement   and the plan, as appropriate, and shall coordinate such programs, to the maximum extent practicable, with  ;

(c) The Secretary of   shall issue rules or guidance on national security professional development programs for  , including interagency and intergovernmental exchanges and fellowship opportunities, to implement   and the plan, as appropriate, and shall coordinate such programs, to the maximum extent practicable, with  ;

(d) The Director of  , in coordination with the heads of agencies of which elements of the intelligence community are a part, shall issue rules or guidance on national security professional development programs for the intelligence community, including interagency and intergovernmental assignments and fellowship opportunities, to implement   and the plan, as appropriate, and shall coordinate such programs, to the maximum extent practicable, with  ; and

(e) The Secretary of   shall develop a program to provide to  , local, and tribal government officials education in disaster preparedness, response, and recovery plans and authorities, and training in crisis decision-making skills, consistent with applicable presidential guidance.

 . 6. General Provisions. This order:

(a) shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and authorities of agencies, or heads of agencies, vested by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations;

(b) shall not be construed to impair or otherwise affect the authorities of any agency, instrumentality, officer, or employee of   under applicable law, including the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals, or the functions assigned by the President to the Director of  ; and

(c) is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
