Executive Order  —Protecting   in Which   Has an Interest
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50

U.S.C.

  et seq.), section 5 of  , as amended (22

U.S.C.

287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that the threat of attachment or other judicial process against  ,   petroleum and petroleum products, and interests therein, and proceeds, obligations, or any financial instruments of any nature whatsoever arising from or related to the sale or marketing thereof, and interests therein, obstructs the orderly reconstruction of  , the restoration and maintenance of peace and security in the country, and the development of political, administrative, and economic institutions in  . This situation constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of   and I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

I hereby order:

Section 1. Unless licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to this order, any attachment, judgment, decree,  , execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is prohibited, and shall be deemed null and void, with respect to the following:

(a)  , and

(b) all   petroleum and petroleum products, and interests therein, and proceeds, obligations, or any financial instruments of any nature whatsoever arising from or related to the sale or marketing thereof, and interests therein, in which any foreign country or a national thereof has any interest, that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons.

 . 2. (a) As of the effective date of this order, Executive Order   of August 2,  , Executive Order   of  , and Executive Order  , shall not apply to the property and interests in property described in section 1 of this order.

(b)

Nothing in this order is intended to affect the continued effectiveness of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses or other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect heretofore or hereafter under Executive Orders  , or  , or under the authority of IEEPA or the UNPA, except as hereafter terminated, modified, or suspended by the issuing Federal agency and except as provided in section 2(a) of this order.

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a)

The term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b)

The term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c)

The term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d)

The term "  petroleum and petroleum products" means any petroleum, petroleum products, or natural gas originating in  , including any  -origin oil inventories, wherever located; and

(e)

The term "Development Fund for Iraq" means the fund established on or  , on the books of  , by   responsible for the temporary governance of   and all accounts held for the fund or for   in the name of the fund.

 . 4. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and the UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order.

The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their statutory authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

(b) Nothing contained in this order shall relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

 . 5. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 6. This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:28 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
