Executive Order  —Additional Measures With Respect to   From  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22

U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in view of the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order  , and   of  , and   of March 7,  ,

I,  , President of  , take note that in Executive Order  , the President responded to, among other things, the insurgent   ( ) illicit trade in diamonds to fund its operations in the civil war in   by declaring a national emergency and, consistent with   Resolution 1306, by prohibiting the importation into   of all rough diamonds from   except for those importations controlled through   regime of  .   Resolution 1343 takes note that the bulk of   diamonds leaves   through   and that such illicit trade cannot be conducted without the permission and involvement of   government officials at the highest levels; determines that the active support provided by   for the   and other armed rebel groups in neighboring countries constitutes a threat to international peace and security in the region; and decides that all states shall take the necessary measures to prevent the importation of all rough diamonds from  , whether or not such diamonds originated in  .   complicity in the  's illicit trade in diamonds and its other forms of support for the   are direct challenges to   foreign policy objectives in the region as well as to the rule-based international order that is crucial to the peace and prosperity of  . Therefore, I find these actions by   contribute to the unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of   described in Executive Order   with respect to which the President declared a national emergency. In order to deal with that threat and to ensure further that the direct or indirect importation into   of rough diamonds from   will not contribute financial support to further aggressive actions

by the   or to the  's procurement of weapons; to implement   Resolution 1343; and to counteract, among other things,   facilitation of and participation in the  's illicit trade in diamonds through  , I hereby order the following additional measures be taken with respect to prohibiting the importation of rough diamonds from  :

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the direct or indirect importation into   of all rough diamonds from  , whether or not such diamonds originated in  , on or after the effective date of this order is prohibited.

 . 2. Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited. Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. The definitions contained in section 4 of Executive Order 13194 apply to the terms used in this order.

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including modification, suspension, or termination of licenses or authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 5. This order is not intended to create, nor does it create, any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, officers, or any other person.

 . 6. (a) This order is effective at 12:01

a.m.   daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .  

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:03 p.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in   on  .
