Executive Order  —Assignment of Functions Under   Leadership Against HIV/AIDS,  , and   of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Executive Order   of  , as amended, is further amended as follows:

(a) in subsection 1–100(a), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (15), by inserting a semicolon at the end of paragraph (15), and by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:

"(16)   Leadership Against HIV/AIDS,  , and   of   (Public Law 108–25)(the "HIV/AIDS Act"), as amended, and amendments made by the HIV/AIDS Act, which the Secretary shall perform, in the case of section 304, after consultation with the Secretary of  .";

(b) in section 1–701, by inserting, after subsection (g), the following new subsections:

"(h) Those functions conferred by section 1(f)(1) and section 1(f)(2)(B)(ii)(VII) of    , as amended (22 U.S.C.  ).

"(i) Those functions conferred by section 202(d)(4)(C)(i) and (ii) of the HIV/AIDS Act, as amended.";

(c) by adding at the end thereof the following new section:

"1–906. Implementation. In carrying out this order, officers of   shall ensure that all actions taken by them are consistent with the President's constitutional authority to: (a) conduct the foreign affairs of  ; (b) withhold information the disclosure of which could impair the foreign relations, the national security, the deliberative processes of the  , or the performance of the  's constitutional duties; (c) recommend for congressional consideration such measures as the President may judge necessary and expedient; and (d) supervise the unitary executive branch.".

 . 2. Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

 . 3. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 
