Executive Order  —Blocking Property of and Prohibiting Transactions With the Government of Sudan
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.)(IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.)(NEA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and taking appropriate account of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of   (the "Act"),

I,  , President of  , find that, due to the continuation of the threat to the national security and foreign policy of   created by certain policies and actions of   that violate human rights, in particular with respect to the conflict in  , where   exercises administrative and legal authority and pervasive practical influence, and due to the threat to the national security and foreign policy of   posed by the pervasive role played by   in the petroleum and petrochemical industries in  , it is in the interests of   to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of  . Accordingly, I hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

 . 2. Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all transactions by   persons relating to the petroleum or petrochemical industries in  , including, but not limited to, oilfield services and oil or gas pipelines, are prohibited.

 . 3. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, restrictions imposed by this order shall be in addition to, and do not derogate from, restrictions imposed in and under Executive Order  .

(b)(i) None of the prohibitions in section 2 of Executive Order   shall apply to activities or related transactions with respect to Southern Sudan,  ,  ,  ,  , or marginalized areas in and around  , provided that the activities or transactions do not involve any property or interests in property of  .

(ii) The Secretary of  , after consultation with the Secretary of the  , may define the term "Southern Sudan,  ,  ,  ,  , or marginalized areas in and around  " for the purposes of this order.

(c) The function of the President under subsection 6(c)(1) of the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-497), as amended by section 5(a)(3) of the Act, is assigned to the Secretary of the   as appropriate in the performance of such function.

(d) The functions of the President under subsection 6(c)(2) and the last sentence of 6(d) of the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-497), as amended by subsections  ) and (b), respectively, of the Act, are assigned to the Secretary of  , except that the function of denial of entry is assigned to the Secretary of  .

(e) The functions of the President under sections 7 and 8 of the Act are assigned to the Secretary of  .

 . 5. Nothing in this order shall prohibit:

(a) transactions for the conduct of the official business of   or   by employees thereof; or

(b) transactions in   for journalistic activity by persons regularly employed in such capacity by a news-gathering organization.

 . 6. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d) the term "Government of Sudan" includes  , its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, and  , but does not include the regional government of Southern Sudan.

 . 7. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that, because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order   there need be no prior notice of a determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 8. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , consistent with applicable law. All executive agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order and, where appropriate, to advise the Secretary of the   in a timely manner of the measures taken. The Secretary of the   shall ensure compliance with those provisions of section 401 of the   (50 U.S.C.  ) applicable to   in relation to this order.

 . 9. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 10. This order shall take effect upon the enactment of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of  .

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  . This item was not received in time for publication in the appropriate issue.
