Executive Order  —Establishing   and the Homeland Security Council
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. I hereby establish within   of the President an   (the "Office") to be headed by the Assistant to the President for  .

 . 2. Mission. The mission of the Office shall be to develop and coordinate the implementation of a comprehensive national strategy to secure   from terrorist threats or attacks. The Office shall perform the functions necessary to carry out this mission, including the functions specified in section 3 of this order.

 . 3. Functions. The functions of the Office shall be to coordinate the executive branch's efforts to detect, prepare for, prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks within  .

(a) National Strategy. The Office shall work with executive departments and agencies,   and local governments, and private entities to ensure the adequacy of the national strategy for detecting, preparing for, preventing, protecting against, responding to, and recovering from terrorist threats or attacks within   and shall periodically review and coordinate revisions to that strategy as necessary.

(b) Detection. The Office shall identify priorities and coordinate efforts for collection and analysis of information within   regarding threats of terrorism against   and activities of terrorists or terrorist groups within  . The Office also shall identify, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for  , priorities for collection of intelligence outside   regarding threats of terrorism within  .

(i) In performing these functions, the Office shall work with  , and local agencies, as appropriate, to:

(A) facilitate collection from   and local governments and private entities of information pertaining to terrorist threats or activities within  ;

(B) coordinate and prioritize the requirements for foreign intelligence relating to terrorism within   of executive departments and agencies responsible for homeland security and provide these requirements and priorities to the Director of   and other agencies responsible for collection of foreign intelligence;

(C) coordinate efforts to ensure that all executive departments and agencies that have intelligence collection responsibilities have sufficient technological capabilities and resources to collect intelligence and data relating to terrorist activities or possible terrorist acts within  , working with the Assistant to the President for  , as appropriate;

(D) coordinate development of monitoring protocols and equipment for use in detecting the release of biological, chemical, and radiological hazards; and

(E) ensure that, to the extent permitted by law, all appropriate and necessary intelligence and law enforcement information relating to homeland security is disseminated to and exchanged among appropriate executive departments and agencies responsible for homeland security and, where appropriate for reasons of homeland security, promote exchange of such information with and among   and local governments and private entities.

(ii) Executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, make available to the   all information relating to terrorist threats and activities within  .

(c) Preparedness.   shall coordinate national efforts to prepare for and mitigate the consequences of terrorist threats or attacks within  . In performing this function, the   shall work with  , and local agencies, and private entities, as appropriate, to:

(i) review and assess the adequacy of the portions of all Federal emergency response plans that pertain to terrorist threats or attacks within  ;

(ii) coordinate domestic exercises and simulations designed to assess and practice systems that would be called upon to respond to a terrorist threat or attack within   and coordinate programs and activities for training Federal, State, and local employees who would be called upon to respond to such a threat or attack;

(iii) coordinate national efforts to ensure public health preparedness for a terrorist attack, including reviewing vaccination policies and reviewing the adequacy of and, if necessary, increasing vaccine and pharmaceutical stockpiles and hospital capacity;

(iv) coordinate Federal assistance to   and local authorities and nongovernmental organizations to prepare for and respond to terrorist threats or attacks within  ;

(v) ensure that national preparedness programs and activities for terrorist threats or attacks are developed and are regularly evaluated under appropriate standards and that resources are allocated to improving and sustaining preparedness based on such evaluations; and

(vi) ensure the readiness and coordinated deployment of Federal response teams to respond to terrorist threats or attacks, working with the Assistant to the President for  , when appropriate.

(d) Prevention. The Office shall coordinate efforts to prevent terrorist attacks within  . In performing this function, the   shall work with  , and local agencies, and private entities, as appropriate, to:

(i) facilitate the exchange of information among such agencies relating to immigration and visa matters and shipments of cargo; and, working with the Assistant to the President for  , ensure coordination among such agencies to prevent the entry of terrorists and terrorist materials and supplies into   and facilitate removal of such terrorists from  , when appropriate;

(ii) coordinate efforts to investigate terrorist threats and attacks within  ; and

(iii) coordinate efforts to improve the security of   borders, territorial waters, and airspace in order to prevent acts of terrorism within  , working with the Assistant to the President for  , when appropriate.

(e) Protection. The Office shall coordinate efforts to protect   and its critical infrastructure from the consequences of terrorist attacks. In performing this function, the   shall work with  , and local agencies, and private entities, as appropriate, to:

(i) strengthen measures for protecting energy production, transmission, and distribution services and critical facilities; other utilities; telecommunications; facilities that produce, use, store, or dispose of nuclear material; and other critical infrastructure services and critical facilities within   from terrorist attack;

(ii) coordinate efforts to protect critical public and privately owned information systems within   from terrorist attack;

(iii) develop criteria for reviewing whether appropriate security measures are in place at major public and privately owned facilities within  ;

(iv) coordinate domestic efforts to ensure that special events determined by appropriate senior officials to have national significance are protected from terrorist attack;

(v) coordinate efforts to protect transportation systems within  , including railways, highways, shipping, ports and waterways, and airports and civilian aircraft, from terrorist attack;

(vi) coordinate efforts to protect   livestock, agriculture, and systems for the provision of water and food for human use and consumption from terrorist attack; and

(vii) coordinate efforts to prevent unauthorized access to, development of, and unlawful importation into   of, chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, explosive, or other related materials that have the potential to be used in terrorist attacks.

(f) Response and Recovery. The Office shall coordinate efforts to respond to and promote recovery from terrorist threats or attacks within  . In performing this function, the   shall work with  , and local agencies, and private entities, as appropriate, to:

(i) coordinate efforts to ensure rapid restoration of transportation systems, energy production, transmission, and distribution systems; telecommunications; other utilities; and other critical infrastructure facilities after disruption by a terrorist threat or attack;

(ii) coordinate efforts to ensure rapid restoration of public and private critical information systems after disruption by a terrorist threat or attack;

(iii) work with   to coordinate efforts to stabilize   financial markets after a terrorist threat or attack and manage the immediate economic and financial consequences of the incident;

(iv) coordinate Federal plans and programs to provide medical, financial, and other assistance to victims of terrorist attacks and their families; and

(v) coordinate containment and removal of biological, chemical, radiological, explosive, or other hazardous materials in the event of a terrorist threat or attack involving such hazards and coordinate efforts to mitigate the effects of such an attack.

(g) Incident Management. The Assistant to the President for   shall be the individual primarily responsible for coordinating the domestic response efforts of all departments and agencies in the event of an imminent terrorist threat and during and in the immediate aftermath of a terrorist attack within   and shall be the principal point of contact for and to the President with respect to coordination of such efforts. The Assistant to the President for   shall coordinate with the Assistant to the President for  , as appropriate.

(h)  . The Assistant to the President for  , in coordination with the Assistant to the President for  , shall review plans and preparations for ensuring the continuity of   in the event of a terrorist attack that threatens the safety and security of   or its leadership.

(i) Public Affairs. The Office, subject to the direction of  , shall coordinate the strategy of the executive branch for communicating with the public in the event of a terrorist threat or attack within  . The Office also shall coordinate the development of programs for educating the public about the nature of terrorist threats and appropriate precautions and responses.

(j) Cooperation with   and Local Governments and Private Entities. The Office shall encourage and invite the participation of   and local governments and private entities, as appropriate, in carrying out the  's functions.

(k) Review of  . The Office shall coordinate a periodic review and assessment of the legal authorities available to executive departments and agencies to permit them to perform the functions described in this order. When the Office determines that such legal authorities are inadequate, the Office shall develop, in consultation with executive departments and agencies, proposals for presidential action and legislative proposals for submission to   to enhance the ability of executive departments and agencies to perform those functions. The Office shall work with   and local governments in assessing the adequacy of their legal authorities to permit them to detect, prepare for, prevent, protect against, and recover from terrorist threats and attacks.

(l)  . The Assistant to the President for  , in consultation with the Director of   (the "Director") and the heads of executive departments and agencies, shall identify programs that contribute to the  's strategy for homeland security and, in the development of the President's   budget submission, shall review and provide advice to the heads of departments and agencies for such programs. The Assistant to the President for   shall provide advice to the Director on the level and use of funding in departments and agencies for homeland security-related activities and, prior to the Director's forwarding of the proposed   budget submission to the President for transmittal to the  , shall certify to the Director the funding levels that the Assistant to the President for   believes are necessary and appropriate for the homeland security-related activities of the executive branch.

 . 4. Administration.

(a)   shall be directed by the Assistant to the President for  .

(b)   within   of the President shall provide   with such personnel, funding, and administrative support, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, as directed by the Chief of Staff to carry out the provisions of this order.

(c) Heads of executive departments and agencies are authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to detail or assign personnel of such departments and agencies to   upon request of the Assistant to the President for  , subject to the approval of the Chief of Staff.

 . 5. Establishment of  .

(a) I hereby establish a   (the "Council"), which shall be responsible for advising and assisting the President with respect to all aspects of homeland security. The   shall serve as the mechanism for ensuring coordination of homeland security-related activities of executive departments and agencies and effective development and implementation of homeland security policies.

(b) The   shall have as its members the President, the Vice President, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , the Assistant to the President for  , and such other officers of the executive branch as the President may from time to time designate. The Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff to the Vice President, the Assistant to the President for  , the Counsel to the President, and the Director of   also are invited to attend any   meeting. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall be invited to attend meetings pertaining to their responsibilities. The heads of other executive departments and agencies and other senior officials shall be invited to attend   meetings when appropriate.

(c) The   shall meet at the President's direction. When the President is absent from a meeting of the  , at the President's direction the Vice President may preside. The Assistant to the President for   shall be responsible, at the President's direction, for determining the agenda, ensuring that necessary papers are prepared, and recording   actions and Presidential decisions.

 . 6.  . I hereby delegate the authority to classify information originally as  , in accordance with Executive Order   or any successor  , to the Assistant to the President for  .

 . 7.  . This order does not alter the existing authorities of   departments and agencies. All executive departments and agencies are directed to assist the   and the Assistant to the President for   in carrying out the purposes of this order.

 . 8.  .

(a) This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

(b) References in this order to   and local governments shall be construed to include tribal governments and   territories and other possessions.

(c) References to  " shall be construed to include   territories and possessions.

 . 9. Amendments to Executive Order  . Executive Order   of  , as amended, is hereby further amended as follows:

(a) Section 101(a) is amended by adding at   sentence: ", except that the   shall be responsible for administering such policy with respect to terrorist threats and attacks within  ."

(b) Section 104(a) is amended by adding at the end: ", except that   is the principal forum for consideration of policy relating to terrorist threats and attacks within  ."

(c) Section 104(b) is amended by inserting the words "and  " after the words " ."

(d) The first sentence of section 104(c) is amended by inserting the words "and  " after the words " ."

(e) The second sentence of section 104(c) is replaced with the following two sentences: "Pursuant to such procedures for the organization and management of   and   processes as the President may establish, the Director of   also shall assist in the implementation of and management of those processes as the President may establish. The Director of   also shall assist in the implementation of national security emergency preparedness policy by coordinating with the other Federal departments and agencies and with   and local governments, and by providing periodic reports to   and   on implementation of national security emergency preparedness policy."

(f) Section 201(7) is amended by inserting the words "and  " after the words " ."

(g) Section 206 is amended by inserting the words "and  " after the words " ."

(h) Section 208 is amended by inserting the words "or  " after the words " ."

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
