Executive Order  —Volunteers for Prosperity
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to encourage volunteer service by highly skilled   to support major initiatives by   for promoting health and prosperity around the world, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. (a) Policy. A part of  , "Volunteers for Prosperity" is a call to service to support major   initiatives that promote health and prosperity around the world. Deploying highly skilled volunteers abroad is an efficient way to use our resources consistent with the objectives of   global prosperity agenda.   volunteers will help to achieve the objectives of the global prosperity agenda, including providing clean water to the poor, promoting democratic governance, developing economic freedom, promoting free and open markets, and stemming the spread of HIV/AIDS.

The investment of Federal resources to enable   volunteers to work with nongovernmental and voluntary service organizations overseas is a preferred use of our resources and also will help leverage private sector resources.   citizens who are skilled professionals and who volunteer, when matched with organizations working on specific   prosperity initiatives overseas, can provide invaluable support for these initiatives and will supplement and complement the traditions and accomplishments of  .

  prosperity initiatives that can benefit from volunteer service include, but are not limited to, the Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief,  , the Water for the Poor Initiative,  , and the Middle East Partnership Initiative.

  service in support of other initiatives, consistent with   foreign policy, shall be considered as well.

(b) Applicability. The following agencies are subject to the requirements of this order:  ),  ,  ,  , and such other Federal agencies as the President may designate in the future.

 . 2. Establishment. (a) Agencies subject to this order shall each establish within their respective organizations an  ) or, as appropriate, an operating unit within an office.

(b)

Each agency subject to this order shall provide its   or unit with appropriate staff, administrative support, and resources to meet its responsibilities under this order.

(c)

Each of these Offices or units shall begin operations   from the date of this order.

(d)

Agencies subject to this order shall consider, in evaluating grant applications for assistance activities to be implemented abroad, the applicant's use of highly skilled

  volunteers to support   prosperity objectives and initiatives.

 . 3. Purpose. To the extent permitted by law, the purpose of the   will be to promote, expand, and enhance well-defined volunteer service opportunities for highly skilled   professionals who wish to work with nongovernmental and voluntary service organizations around the world in support of major   prosperity initiatives as identified in section 1 of this order. Such promotion, expansion, and enhancement would include actively participating in the design and selection processes for grants within their agencies, tracking the use of   private volunteer organizations by their agencies, and coordinating with   Offices including  ,  , and    , as appropriate.

 . 4. Funding. Agencies subject to this order are hereby directed to use their best efforts to use funds available for the   prosperity initiatives listed in section 1 of this order to provide appropriate support to organizations that use highly skilled   volunteers to accomplish the objectives identified in those initiatives.

 . 5. Coordination. The   shall serve as the inter-agency coordinator for   initiative. In that capacity, the   shall coordinate the activities that fall within the scope of the initiative and report on the progress of the initiative to  , within  . The reports shall

be submitted within   after the date of this order and annually thereafter.   shall encourage consistency in policies and practices within the agencies subject to this order, as appropriate, for purposes related to   initiative.

 . 6. Administration. The actions directed by this order shall be carried out subject to the availability of appropriations, to the extent permitted by law, and consistent with the agencies' missions.

 . 7.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch of  , and it is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, against  , its departments, agencies, or other entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
