Executive Order  —Termination of Emergency Declared in Executive Order   With   to the Policies and Actions of the Government of Libya and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) ( ), section 5 of  , as amended (22

U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), sections 504 and 505 of   (22 U.S.C. 2349aa– 8 and 2349aa–9), section 40106 of title  , United States Code, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that the situation that gave rise to the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order   of January 7,  , with respect to the policies and actions of  , and that led to the steps taken in that order and in Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , has been significantly altered by  's commitments and actions to eliminate its weapons of mass destruction programs and its   ( ) -class missiles, and by other developments. Accordingly, I hereby terminate the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and revoke that Executive Order, Executive  , and Executive Order  . I also hereby revoke Executive Order 12538 of  , and further order:

Section 1. Pursuant to section 202(a) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1622(a)), termination of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   with respect to the policies and actions of   shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the effective date of this order, any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to such date, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to such date.

 . 2. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 3. (a) This order is effective at 12:01

a.m.   daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
