Executive Order  —  to and Revocation of Other Executive Orders
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and consistent with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  .

(a) Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(b)  ; section 3 of Executive  , as amended ( ).

(c)  ; Executive  , as amended ( ).

(d) President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(e) President's   on   and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(f) President's Commission on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(g) President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(h) President's   and the  ; Executive  , as amended (National Endowment for the Arts).

(i) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(j) President's Committee on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(k) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(l) President's  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(m) President's  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(n) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(o) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(p) Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive Order   ( ).

 . 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 3. The following Executive Order, which established a committee whose work has been completed, is revoked: Executive Order  , as amended by Executive Orders    , establishing the President's  .

 . 4. Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order   are superseded by sections 1 and 2 of this order.

 . 5. Executive  , as amended (President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities) is further amended to read as follows:

"By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to promote full participation of people with intellectual disabilities in their communities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

"Section 1. Committee Continued and Responsibilities Expanded. The President's  , with expanded membership and expanded responsibilities, and renamed the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities (Committee), is hereby continued in operation.

" . 2.  .

(a) The   shall be composed of the following members:

(1)          The Attorney General;

(2)          The Secretary of the  ;

(3)          The Secretary of  ;

(4)          The Secretary of  ;

(5)          The Secretary of  ;

(6)          The Secretary of  ;

(7)          The Secretary of  ;

(8)          The Secretary of  ;

(9)          The Secretary of  ;

(10)          The Chief Executive Officer of  ;

(11)           ;

(12)          The Chairman of  ;

(13)          The Chairperson of the National Council on Disability; and

(14)          No more than 21 other members who shall be appointed to the   by the President. These citizen members shall consist of individuals who represent a broad spectrum of perspectives, experience, and expertise on intellectual disabilities; persons with intellectual disabilities and members of families with a child or adult with intellectual disabilities; and persons employed in either the public or the private sector. Except as the President may from time to time otherwise direct, appointees under this paragraph shall serve for   terms, except that an appointment made to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of a term shall be made for the balance of the unexpired term.

"(b) The President shall designate the Chair of the Committee from the 21 citizen members. The   shall preside over meetings of the   and represent the   on appropriate occasions.

" . 3. Functions of the  .

(a) Consistent with subsection (c) of this section, the   shall:

(1)          provide such advice concerning intellectual disabilities as the President or the Secretary of   may request; and

(2)          provide advice to the President concerning the following for people with intellectual disabilities:

(A)          expansion of educational opportunities;

(B)          promotion of homeownership;

(C)          assurance of workplace integration;

(D)          improvement of transportation options;

(E)          expansion of full access to community living; and

(F)          increasing access to assistive and universally designed technologies.

"(b) The   shall provide an   report to the President through the Secretary of  . Such additional reports may be made as the President may direct or as the   may deem appropriate.

"(c) The members shall advise the President and carry out their advisory role consistent with the requirements of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.).

" . 4. Cooperation by Agencies. The heads of   departments and agencies shall:

"(a) designate, when requested by the Secretary of  , an officer or employee of such department or agency to serve as a liaison with the  ; and

"(b) furnish such information and assistance to the  , to the extent permitted by law, as the Secretary of   may request to assist the   in performing its functions under this order.

" . 5. Administration.

(a)   shall provide the   with necessary staff support, administrative services and facilities, and funding, to the extent permitted by law.

"(b) Each member of the  , except any member who receives other compensation from  , may receive compensation for   engaged in the work of the  , as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ), and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ), for persons employed intermittently in the   service. Committee members with disabilities may be compensated for attendant expenses, consistent with Government procedures and practices.

"(c) The Secretary of   shall perform such other functions with respect to the   as may be required by  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), except that of reporting to the  .

" . 6. General.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency, or any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency, to the authority of the   or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.

"(b) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.".

 . 6. This order shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
