Executive Order  —Termination of Emergency With Respect to the   and Amendment of Executive Order   of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) ( ), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22

U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that the situation that gave rise to the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order  , with respect to the  , in allowing territory under its control in   to be used as a safe haven and base of operations for   and   organization, has been significantly altered given the success of the military campaign in  , and hereby revoke that order and terminate the national emergency declared in that order with respect to the  . At the same time, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the grave acts of terrorism and threats of terrorism committed by foreign terrorists, the continuing and immediate threat of further attacks on   nationals or  , and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order   of  , I hereby order:

Section 1. The   to Executive Order   of  , is amended by adding thereto the following persons in appropriate alphabetical order:

  (aka,   [Commander of the Faithful])

The  .

 . 2. For the purposes of this order and Executive Order   of  , the term "the  " is also known as the "Taleban," "Islamic Movement of Taliban," " ," "Talibano Islami Tahrik," and "Tahrike Islami'a  ". The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , is hereby authorized to modify the definition of the term "the  ," as appropriate.

 . 3. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 4. Pursuant to section 202 of the   (  1622), termination of the national emergency with respect to the   shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the date of this order, or any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to the date of this order, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to the date of this order.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:09 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
