1.
Accelerating home building act
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Affordable housing
The term
affordable housing
means housing for which the total monthly housing cost payment is not more than 30 percent of the monthly household income for a household earning not more than 80 percent of the area median income.
(2)
Covered structure
The term
covered structure
means—
(A)
a low-rise or mid-rise structure with not more than 25 dwelling units; and
(B)
includes—
(i)
an accessory dwelling unit;
(ii)
infill development;
(iii)
a duplex;
(iv)
a triplex;
(v)
a fourplex;
(vi)
a cottage court;
(vii)
a courtyard building;
(viii)
a townhouse;
(ix)
a multiplex; and
(x)
any other structure with not less than 2 dwelling units that the Secretary considers appropriate.
(3)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
a unit of general local government, as defined in section 102(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5302(a)
);
(B)
a municipal membership organization; and
(C)
an Indian tribe, as defined in section 102(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5302(a)
).
(4)
High opportunity area
The term
high opportunity area
has the meaning given the term in section 1282.1 of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
(5)
Infill development
The term
infill development
means residential development on small parcels in previously established areas for replacement by new or refurbished housing that utilizes existing utilities and infrastructure.
(6)
Mixed-income housing
The term
mixed-income housing
means a housing development that is comprised of housing units that promote differing levels of affordability in the community.
(7)
Pre-reviewed designs
The term
pre-reviewed designs
, also known as pattern books, means sets of construction plans that are assessed and approved by localities for compliance with local building and permitting standards to streamline and expedite approval pathways for housing construction.
(8)
Rural area
The term
rural area
means any area other than a city or town that has a population of less than 50,000 inhabitants.
(9)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
(b)
Authority
The Secretary may award grants to eligible entities to select pre-reviewed designs of covered structures of mixed-income housing for use in the jurisdiction of the eligible entity, except that such grant awards may not be used for construction, alteration, or repair work.
(c)
Considerations
In reviewing applications submitted by eligible entities for a grant under this section, the Secretary shall consider—
(1)
the need for affordable housing by the eligible entity;
(2)
the presence of high opportunity areas in the jurisdiction of the eligible entity;
(3)
coordination between the eligible entity and a State agency; and
(4)
coordination between the eligible entity and State, local, and regional transportation planning authorities.
(d)
Set-aside for rural areas
Of the amount made available in each fiscal year for grants under this section, the Secretary shall ensure that not less than 10 percent shall be used for grants to eligible entities that are located in rural areas.
(e)
Reports
The Secretary shall require eligible entities receiving grants under this section to report on—
(1)
the impacts of the activities carried out using the grant amounts in improving the production and supply of affordable housing;
(2)
the pre-reviewed designs selected using the grant amounts in their communities;
(3)
the number of permits issued for housing development utilizing pre-reviewed designs; and
(4)
the number of housing units produced in developments utilizing the pre-reviewed designs.
(f)
Availability of information
The Secretary shall—
(1)
to the extent possible, encourage localities to make publicly available through a website information on the pre-reviewed designs selected and submitted to the Secretary by eligible entities receiving grants under this section, including information on the benefits of use of those designs; and
(2)
collect, identify, and disseminate best practices regarding such designs and make such information publicly available on the website of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(g)
Design adoption and repayment
The Secretary may require an eligible entity to return to the Secretary any grant funds received under this section if the selected pre-reviewed designs submitted under this section have not been adopted during the 5-year period following receipt of the grant, unless that period is extended by the Secretary.
(h)
Authorization of appropriations
(1)
In general
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.
(2)
Technical assistance
The Secretary may set aside not more than 5 percent of amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) in a fiscal year to provide technical assistance to grant recipients under this section and pre-grant technical assistance for prospective applicants.
