1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Body Camera Paywalls Act
.
2.
Providing access to certain camera footage free of charge
(a)
Certification required for certain grants
An application by a State or a unit of local government for funding under a covered program shall include a certification that such State, unit of local government, and any law enforcement agency to which the State or unit of local government will distribute funds, does not impose any financial or monetary cost on any member of the public seeking to view, access, or obtain a copy of certain camera video footage recorded by a law enforcement officer, or impose any other fees related to obtaining certain camera footage, including court fees.
(b)
Eligibility
A State or unit of local government shall be ineligible for funding under a covered program without providing the certification described under subsection (a).
(c)
Covered program defined
In this section:
(1)
Byrne grant program
The term
Byrne grant program
means any grant program under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10151 et seq.
), without regard to whether the funds are characterized as being made available under the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Programs, the Local Government Law Enforcement Block Grants Program, the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, or otherwise.
(2)
Certain camera video footage
The term
certain camera video footage
includes—
(A)
body camera video footage recorded by a law enforcement officer;
(B)
dash camera video footage recorded by a law enforcement officer;
(C)
jail, prison, or correctional facility surveillance footage; or
(D)
any other relevant law enforcement agency footage.
(3)
COPS grant program
The term
COPS grant program
means the grant program authorized under section 1701 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10381
).
(4)
Covered program
The term
covered program
means any program or activity funded in whole or in part with funds made available under—
(A)
a Byrne grant program; and
(B)
the COPS grant program.
