1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Community Health Access Through Resilient Grid Energy Act of 2025
or the
CHARGE Act of 2025
.
2.
Grant program for solar energy systems and energy storage technologies at Federally qualified health centers
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy of the Department of Energy, shall establish a program to award grants to eligible entities for the conduct of qualifying projects (in this section referred to as the
program
).
(b)
Grants
(1)
Application
The Secretary may award a grant under the program if an applicant submits to the Secretary an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate, including a description of—
(A)
the qualifying project proposed to be conducted by the eligible entity using such grant amounts; and
(B)
as applicable, how the eligible entity plans to select any Federally qualified health center with respect to which such qualifying project will be conducted.
(2)
Use of grant amounts
Grant amounts awarded under the program may only be used to conduct a qualifying project.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to implement the program $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2030.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Applicant
The term
applicant
means an eligible entity that applies for a grant under the program.
(2)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
a unit of State or local government;
(B)
a Federally qualified health center;
(C)
a nonprofit membership organization that operates at the national, regional, or State level and includes within its membership one or more Federally qualified health centers; or
(D)
a provider consortia or network that is majority owned or majority controlled by one or more Federally qualified health centers.
(3)
Energy storage technology
The term
energy storage technology
has the meaning given that term in
section 48E(c)(2)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(4)
Federally qualified health center
The term
Federally qualified health center
has the meaning given that term in section 1905(l)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396d(l)(2)(B)
).
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
(6)
Solar energy system
The term
solar energy system
—
(A)
means an engineered assembly of components that capture solar radiation and convert such radiation into an energy source through technologies such as photovoltaic panels or solar thermal collectors; and
(B)
includes any supporting infrastructure for the delivery of such energy for use.
(7)
Qualifying project
The term
qualifying project
means a project—
(A)
to install at one or more Federally qualified health centers a solar energy system or an energy storage technology; or
(B)
to provide to one or more Federally qualified health centers technical assistance relating to the design, installation, operation, or use of a solar energy system or energy storage technology.
