1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transforming Healing, Resilience, and Integrative Veteran Engagement Act of 2025
or the
THRIVE Act of 2025
.
2.
Interagency Task Force on Complementary and Integrative Health
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a task force, to be known as the
Task Force on Complementary and Integrative Health/Whole Health
.
(b)
Members
The task force shall be composed of the following individuals or their designees:
(1)
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, who shall serve as the Chair.
(2)
The Executive Director of the Office of Mental Health and Suicide Prevention of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(3)
The Director of the Research and Development Office of the Department.
(4)
The Executive Director of the Office of Patient-Centered Care and Cultural Transformation of the Department.
(5)
At least one representative from an academic institution who specializes in complementary and integrative health research.
(6)
At least one clinician of the Department who has experience treating veterans with one or more of the following conditions:
(A)
Post-traumatic stress disorder.
(B)
Traumatic brain injury.
(C)
Depression.
(D)
Anxiety.
(7)
At least one representative from a veterans service organization focused on—
(A)
treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and anxiety; or
(B)
suicide prevention.
(8)
At least one representative from another relevant organization involved in researching, diagnosing, or treating post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, depression, anxiety, or suicide prevention that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines is necessary.
(9)
At least one representative from a community-based program with demonstrated success in improving veterans’ mental health and well-being through complementary, integrative, or peer-led approaches.
(c)
Responsibilities
The task force shall carry out the following responsibilities:
(1)
Assessing the current access of veterans who receive medical care at Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities to complementary and integrative health/whole health therapies and program for veterans and how to make such therapies and programs more accessible to such veterans at such facilities.
(2)
Developing a framework to determine—
(A)
the effectiveness of complementary and integrative health therapies, including acupuncture, biofeedback, clinical hypnosis, guided imagery, massage therapy, meditation, tai chi, qigong, and yoga, peer-supported programs, and health and wellness coaching programs as treatments for post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, depression, and anxiety, and for suicide prevention; and
(B)
whether and how the Department of Veterans Affairs should expand or modify access to such therapies and programs.
(3)
Identifying gaps in research and implementation of complementary and integrative health/whole health therapies at Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities, including gaps in knowledge of effectiveness or safety, provider training, and availability of services.
(4)
Determining how to integrate emerging complementary and integrative health/whole health therapies, including peer-led models and health and wellness coaching models, into the continuum of care of the Department.
(5)
Analyzing any factors contributing to treatment dropout, low retention, or relapse among veterans and how the Department can improve outcomes for such veterans.
(6)
Identifying any additional resources or authorities the Department needs from Congress to improve accessibility of complementary and integrative health/whole health therapies.
(d)
Recommendations
Not later than one year after the date of the establishment of the task force, the task force shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the recommendations of the task force with respect to the responsibilities under subsection (c).
(e)
Reporting
(1)
Initial report
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives the recommendations of the task force under subsection (d), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on such recommendations.
(2)
Final report
Not later than 180 days after the date of submission of the report under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing a plan to address such recommendations.
(f)
Termination
The task force shall terminate on the date on which the task force submits the recommendations to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under subsection (d).
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The terms
peer-led model
and
peer-supported program
mean a program or approach in which veterans with lived experience are trained and engaged to provide counseling, mentoring, training, or support services to other veterans, as a complement or alternative to services provided by clinical professionals.
(2)
The term
community-based program
—
(A)
means a program providing health or wellness services that is operated by a non-governmental or nonprofit entity in a local community setting, rather than directly by a Federal agency; and
(B)
includes programs that receive funding from the Department of Veterans Affairs through grant programs or partnerships to enhance veterans’ mental health, suicide prevention, or overall well-being.
