1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Raising Prices on Food Act
.
2.
Limitation on authority of the President to impose duties on agricultural trading partners of the United States
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered country
(A)
In general
The term
covered country
means a country that is one of the 5 countries with the highest volume of United States agricultural goods imported into the country in the preceding fiscal year, as determined by the President.
(B)
EU countries
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the European Union and its member countries shall be treated a single country.
(2)
Covered duty
The term
covered duty
means a duty proclaimed pursuant to—
(A)
section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (
19 U.S.C. 1862
);
(B)
section 338 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1338
);
(C)
the Trading with the Enemy Act (
50 U.S.C. 4301 et seq.
); or
(D)
the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
).
(b)
Authority To proclaim or increase duty rates
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may proclaim a new or additional covered duty with respect to an article imported into the United States from a covered country, only if—
(1)
the President submits to Congress a request for authorization to proclaim or increase the duty that includes—
(A)
a description of the objective the President seeks to achieve through proclamation or increase of the duty;
(B)
an explanation of why such objective cannot be achieved more effectively through diplomatic engagement, trade dispute resolution processes, or other mechanisms; and
(C)
an assessment of the likely impact of the proposal on the United States agricultural economy; and
(2)
a joint resolution of approval under subsection (c) is enacted into law.
(c)
Joint resolution of approval
(1)
Joint resolution of approval defined
In this subsection, the term
joint resolution of approval
means a joint resolution the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows: “That Congress authorizes the President to proclaim duty rates as set forth in the request of the President submitted to Congress on ________________”, with the blank space being filled with the date of the request submitted under subsection (b)(1).
(2)
Introduction
A joint resolution of approval may be introduced in either House of Congress by any Member during the 15-legislative day period beginning on the date on which the President submits to Congress the request under subsection (b)(1).
(3)
Expedited procedures
The provisions of subsections (b) through (f) of section 152 of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2192
) apply to a joint resolution of approval to the same extent that such subsections apply to joint resolutions under such section 152.
(4)
Rules of the Senate and the House of Representatives
This subsection is enacted by Congress—
(A)
as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that House in the case of a joint resolution of approval, and supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
(B)
with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.
