1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Hawai‘i National Cemetery Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Veterans, members of the Armed Forces, spouses, and dependents may be eligible for burial in a national cemetery pursuant to regulations prescribed under section 2402 of title 38, United States Code.
(2)
According to the National Cemetery Administration Strategic Plan and Performance Goals, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs seeks to ensure that 95 percent of veterans live within 75 miles of a national, State, or Tribal veterans cemetery.
(3)
The National Cemetery Administration’s Long Range Plan, as detailed in the budget submission of the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2026, sets goals that seek to improve burial benefits, including the following:
(A)
Veterans and eligible family members will have increased access to burial benefits.
(B)
More veterans and eligible family members will use such burial and memorial benefits.
(C)
Veterans will be memorialized through enhanced tributes befitting their service and sacrifice to the Nation.
(D)
Stakeholders will place greater trust in the National Cemetery Administration based on enhanced accountability.
(E)
Stakeholders will be served more efficiently and effectively by internal capacity of the National Cemetery Administration.
(4)
The goals described in paragraph (3) do not account for veterans in Hawai‘i who prefer to be buried in a national cemetery even if other options exist. Hawai‘i’s only national cemetery, the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific, has been essentially closed to casketed burials since 1991 and will stop accepting cremated remains by 2036. Should a veteran in Hawai‘i prefer an inground burial in a national cemetery, they are forced to select a cemetery at least 2,500 miles away. This distance can create significant financial and logistical burdens compared to veterans in the continental United States, as air travel that is often cost-prohibitive is required for casket transportation and visitation.
(5)
To maintain equitable access to burial benefits in a national cemetery for veterans residing in Hawai‘i, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs must initiate the construction of a new national cemetery in Hawai‘i to supplement the remaining columbarium space at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific. The work should begin immediately, as developing a new national cemetery must pass through six phases and such a cemetery can take more than eight years to construct.
(6)
While Hawai‘i is home to many great State Veterans Cemeteries, establishment of a new national cemetery would align with the National Cemetery Administration’s access goals and increase options for veterans and other beneficiaries in the Pacific.
3.
Establishment of new national cemetery in the State of Hawai‘i
(a)
Establishment
In accordance with
chapter 24
of title 38, United States Code, and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a new national cemetery in the State of Hawai‘i.
(b)
Site selection
In selecting a location for the national cemetery described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
give priority to a location that—
(A)
is near population centers;
(B)
is accessible by existing modes of transportation; and
(C)
minimizes environmental impact; and
(2)
consult with—
(A)
the Governor of Hawai‘i;
(B)
local representatives of veterans service organizations; and
(C)
other entities the Secretary determines appropriate.
(c)
Reports
(1)
Potential sites
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report identifying sites that the Secretary determines appropriate for the national cemetery described in subsection (a).
(2)
Progress reports
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until the national cemetery described in subsection (a) is operational, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report regarding the establishment of such national cemetery, including progress regarding the following elements:
(A)
Site selection.
(B)
Environmental impact assessment.
(C)
Land acquisition.
(D)
Master planning and design development.
(E)
Preparation of construction documents.
(F)
Award of construction contracts.
(G)
Completion of construction.
(H)
Beginning of operations.
(d)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives.
