1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Maintaining Area Rights and Integrity Through International Maritime Enforcement Act
or the
MARITIME Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Increasing sea levels pose an existential threat to low-lying island States in the Pacific Ocean.
(2)
Maritime zones are critical for the economies of the Pacific Islands, which depend on exclusive rights to resources.
(3)
New trends are developing in the practices and views of States on the need for stable maritime zones in the face of sea level rise, as reflected in the approach taken by the members of the Pacific Islands Forum and the Alliance of Small Island States.
3.
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States that—
(1)
sea level rise driven by climate change should not cause any country to lose its statehood or its membership in the United Nations, its specialized agencies, or other international organizations;
(2)
the United States is committed to working with other countries on issues relating to sea level rise and statehood to advance these objectives;
(3)
sea level rise driven by climate change should not diminish the maritime zones on which island States and other coastal States rely, including for food and livelihoods;
(4)
the United States is committed to preserving the legitimacy of maritime zones, and associated rights and entitlements, that have been established consistent with international law as reflected in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and that are not subsequently updated despite sea level rise caused by climate change;
(5)
countries should support the initiative of the Pacific Islands Forum and the Alliance of Small Island States to take steps now to determine, memorialize, and publish their coastal baselines in accordance with the international law of the sea as set out in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea; and
(6)
the United States will encourage countries to adopt similar policies on the issue of statehood and the preservation of maritime zones.
4.
Report
(a)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the efforts of the United States to promote the adoption, by foreign countries and international organizations, of policies that are complementary to United States policies regarding the effects of sea level rise on the statehood and maritime zones of countries.
(b)
Report contents
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A comprehensive review of the initiatives of the Department of State and other relevant departments and agencies to promote the adoption of policies described in subsection (a) by foreign countries and international organizations.
(2)
An assessment of how the Department of State and other relevant departments and agencies are establishing or expanding bilateral and multilateral efforts to encourage the adoption of policies described in subsection (a) in international fora.
(3)
An assessment of any legal, policy, logistical, financial, or administrative barrier to promoting the adoption of policies described in subsection (a).
(4)
A list of countries and international organizations that have adopted policies described in subsection (a).
(c)
Form of report
The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Appropriate congressional committees
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
