1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Data Improvement for Puerto Rico Recovery Act
.
2.
Study required
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall complete and submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report containing the results of a study on the specific data needs across grant-awarding agencies. The report shall contain the following:
(1)
A list of all grants provided by grant-awarding agencies to support Puerto Rico’s recovery from Hurricanes Irma, María, and Fiona, the 2020 earthquakes, and the COVID–19 pandemic. The list shall specify the grant type, amount, and the specific disaster or emergency to which it pertains.
(2)
An assessment of statistical products that details the stages of the grant process at which statistical products were used, including—
(A)
notice of funding opportunity;
(B)
development;
(C)
application review;
(D)
award selection;
(E)
formulation of terms and conditions; and
(F)
technical assistance.
(3)
An evaluation of the most critical data needs identified by grant-awarding agencies in managing disaster-related grants for Puerto Rico, including issues related to lack of data coverage, disparities, reporting delays, and limitations in data reliability.
(4)
A description of the extent to which the identified data gaps have impeded effective grant allocation, management, and evaluation for Puerto Rico, including any specific examples where grant execution was hindered.
(5)
Where applicable, a list of Federal products that currently exclude Puerto Rico, but which could improve grant processes if the Puerto Rico was included. The grant-awarding agencies shall provide recommendations on integrating Puerto Rico into such Federal products to enhance grant allocation and oversight.
(b)
Access to prompt and complete information
Any Federal official from whom the Comptroller General seeks information for purposes of the report required by subsection (a) shall comprehensively respond to such request for information, not later than 90 days after the receipt of that request.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on National Resources of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
(2)
Grant-awarding agencies
The term
grant-awarding agencies
means relevant agencies what have allocated, obligated, or disbursed recovery funds for Puerto Rico.
(3)
Relevant agencies
The term
relevant agencies
means the following:
(A)
Environmental Protection Agency.
(B)
Federal Communications Commission.
(C)
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(D)
General Services Administration.
(E)
National Science Foundation.
(F)
Small Business Administration.
(G)
Army Corps of Engineers.
(H)
Department of Agriculture.
(I)
Department of Commerce, including the Economic Development Administration, Minority Business Development Agency.
(J)
National Telecommunications and Information Administration.
(K)
National Institute of Standards and Technology.
(L)
International Trade Administration.
(M)
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(N)
Department of Energy.
(O)
Department of Health and Human Services.
(P)
Department of Homeland Security.
(Q)
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(R)
Department of Justice.
(S)
Department of Labor.
(T)
Department of the Interior.
(U)
Department of Transportation.
(V)
Department of Veterans Affairs.
(4)
Statistical products
The term
statistical products
means Federal statistical inputs, estimates, and products used by grant-awarding agencies to develop and manage grant funding.
