1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Legislative Enforcement Against Setbacks from Harmful DOGE Actions Act
or the
LEASH DOGE Act
.
2.
Requiring provision of information on employees and activities of Department of Government Efficiency
(a)
Report
The head of the United States DOGE Service (commonly referred to as the
Department of Government Efficiency
or
DOGE
) shall submit a report to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate containing the following information:
(1)
A list of—
(A)
all employees of the Department, including special Government employees, and a description of each employee’s role; and
(B)
all employees of the Executive Office of the President, including any individual serving as a Senior Advisor to the President, whose duties include advising the President on the operations of the Department.
(2)
For each such employee, a statement of whether the employee has undergone a background check and, if so, the results of the background check.
(3)
For each such employee, a statement of whether the employee has a security clearance.
(4)
For each such employee, a statement disclosing any conflict of interest held by the employee, including (if applicable) a description of a plan entered into by the employee to address such conflicts and the person with whom the employee entered into the plan.
(b)
Appearance at meetings of committees
(1)
Appearance of head of DOGE required
The head of DOGE and any Senior Advisor to the President described in subsection (a)(1)(B) shall appear at a closed meeting of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives and a closed meeting of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate to present information on the activities carried out by the Department as of the date of the meeting and on the activities the Department intends to carry out after such date.
(2)
Information on access to personally identifiable information
The head of DOGE and any Senior Advisor to the President described in subsection (a)(1)(B) shall include in the information presented at a meeting under this subsection a description of the extent to which employees of DOGE have obtained access to computer systems of the Federal Government, along with a description of the types of personally identifiable information contained in such systems for which such employees have obtained access.
(c)
Public website on DOGE information
(1)
Establishment and operation
The head of DOGE shall establish and operate a public website through which members of the public may obtain the following information in human-readable form:
(A)
A list of employees of DOGE, include special Government employees, their titles, and a description of their role in DOGE.
(B)
The number of employees laid off and put on administrative leave within each office of the Federal Government.
(C)
A list of programs and activities within each office of the Government for which funding has been reduced, and the amount by which such funding has been reduced.
(D)
A list of programs and activities within each office of the Government for which funding has been paused, and a timeline on when a final decision will be made regarding that funding.
(E)
A list of programs and activities within each office of the Government for which funding has been eliminated.
(F)
A list of individuals, including their contact information, whom Federal employees, recipients of Federal financial assistance, and members of the public may contact with questions about the status of Federal personnel and Federal financial assistance.
(2)
Updates
The head of DOGE shall update the information provided on the website under this subsection not less frequently than once per week.
3.
Treatment of employees of DOGE Agency Teams
(a)
Treatment as employee of DOGE
For purposes of this Act, an employee of an agency who serves on the DOGE Agency Team of the agency in accordance with section 3(c) of Executive Order 14158 shall be considered an employee of DOGE.
(b)
Provision of information
The head of each agency for which a DOGE Agency Team has been established in accordance with such Executive Order shall provide the head of DOGE with such information as may be necessary for the head of DOGE to carry out the requirements of this Act.
4.
Deadlines; restrictions on use of funds
(a)
Deadlines
Not later than March 31, 2025, the head of DOGE shall submit the report required under section 2(a), appear at meetings under section 2(b), and operate the public website under section 2(c).
(b)
Restrictions on use of funds
If the head of DOGE fails to comply with subsection (a)—
(1)
any funds appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department of Government Efficiency, including amounts previously available for the United States Digital Service, may be used only to carry out activities initiated prior to January 20, 2025; and
(2)
no Federal funds may be used for any DOGE Agency Team established in accordance with section 3(c) of Executive Order 14158,
until the head of DOGE submits the report required under section 2(a), appears at meetings under section 2(b), and operates the public website under section 2(c).
