1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding Seniors' Access to Lower Cost Medicines Act of 2023
.
2.
Facilitating midyear formulary changes for biosimilars
(a)
In general
Section 1860D–4(b) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–104(b)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Mid-year changes in formularies permitted for certain biosimilar biological products and the reference product of such biosimilars
If a PDP sponsor of a prescription drug plan uses a formulary (including the use of tiered cost-sharing), the following shall apply:
(A)
In general
For plan year 2025, and subsequent plan years, in the case of a covered part D drug that is the reference biological product (as defined in section 1847A(c)(6)(I)) with respect to a biosimilar biological product (as defined in section 1847A(c)(6)(H)), the PDP sponsor may, with respect to a formulary, at any time after the first 60 days of the plan year, subject to paragraph (3)(E), change the preferred or tiered cost-sharing status of such reference biological product if such PDP sponsor adds, before or at the same time, to such formulary such biosimilar biological product at the same or a higher preferred status, or to the same or lower cost-sharing tier, as that of such reference biological product immediately prior to such change.
(B)
Request for approval of change
Prior to making a change described in subparagraph (A), the PDP sponsor shall submit to the Secretary a request to make such change. If the Secretary approves the request or has not provided a decision to the PDP sponsor regarding such request within 30 days of receiving such request, such PDP sponsor may make such change.
.
(b)
Administration
(1)
Implementation
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Health and Human Services may implement the amendment made by subsection (a) by program instruction or otherwise.
(2)
Non-application of the Paperwork Reduction Act
Chapter 35
of title 44, United States Code (commonly referred to as the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
), shall not apply to the implementation of the amendment made by subsection (a).
