1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
The WOSB Integrity Act of 2024
.
2.
Women owned small business size standard compliance for restricted competition
(a)
In general
Section 8(m)(2)(E) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(m)(2)(E)
) is amended by inserting
, including that each such concern does not exceed the applicable size standard established under section 3(a)
after
by women
.
(b)
Applicability
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall not be construed as disqualifying any small business concern owned and controlled by women that, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, is certified by a Federal agency, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, or a national certifying entity approved by the Administrator as a small business concern owned and controlled by women from competing for contracts restricted under section 8(m)(2) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(m)(2)
) before the earlier of—
(1)
the date on which the small business concern owned and controlled by women submits a notice that such concern is no longer a small business concern owned and controlled by women; or
(2)
the date on which the Administrator, Federal agency, or entity that provided such certification determines that the concern exceeds the applicable size standard established under section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632(a)
).
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act shall be construed to require the Administrator to perform a formal size determination on a small business concern when considering an application from such concern for certification as a small business concern owned and controlled by women.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(2)
Small business concern
The term
small business concern
has the meaning given under section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
).
(3)
Small business concern owned and controlled by women
The term
small business concern
and
small business concern owned and controlled by women
has the meaning given in section 8(m)(1) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(m)(1)
).
(e)
Technical amendment
Section 8(m)(2)(C) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(m)(2)(C)
) is amended by striking
paragraph (3)
and inserting
paragraph (4)
.
(f)
Compliance with CUTGO
No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act or the amendments made by this Act.
