1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Hardwood Products Access and Development Program Act
.
2.
Hardwood Products Access and Development Program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Agriculture (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) may award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to promote the domestic hardwood industry through the following activities:
(1)
Research related to the low carbon footprint, carbon storage capacity, and resource sustainability of domestically produced hardwood products.
(2)
Promotion of research and education related to domestically produced hardwood products.
(3)
Promotion of the low carbon footprint, carbon storage capacity, and resource sustainability of the domestic hardwood industry.
(4)
Market promotion of domestically produced hardwood products.
(5)
Consumer market research related to domestically produced hardwood products.
(6)
Demonstration projects demonstrating the natural qualities, low carbon footprint, carbon storage capacity, and resource sustainability of domestically harvested hardwood and domestically produced hardwood products.
(b)
Eligible entities
An entity is eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a) if such entity is 1 of the following:
(1)
A State.
(2)
A nonprofit organization representing the domestic hardwood products industry.
(3)
An institution of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
)).
(4)
A nonprofit research institution.
(c)
Applications
To receive a grant under subsection (a), an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including—
(1)
a description of the activities to be supported using the grant funds;
(2)
a description of the goals that the eligible entity intends to achieve as a result of supporting such activities; and
(3)
an estimate of the increase in hardwood production or consumer awareness that the eligible entity anticipates will occur as a result of supporting such activities.
(d)
Regulations
The Secretary shall promulgate such regulations as are necessary to carry out this section.
(e)
No preemption of State or Tribal laws
Nothing in this section shall be construed to preempt any law (including a law regarding liability) of a State or Indian Tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
)).
(f)
Domestically produced hardwood product defined
The term
domestically produced hardwood product
means a domestically produced product that is 90 percent by volume domestically sourced hardwood material.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2029.
