1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Western South Dakota Water Supply Project Feasibility Study Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Reclamation feasibility standards
The term
reclamation feasibility standards
means the eligibility criteria and feasibility study requirements described in section 106 of the Reclamation Rural Water Supply Act of 2006 (
43 U.S.C. 2405
).
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(3)
Western Dakota Regional Water System
The term
Western Dakota Regional Water System
means the Western Dakota Regional Water System, Inc., a nonprofit corporation established and operated substantially in accordance with the reclamation feasibility standards to serve as a non-Federal project entity for purposes of the cooperative agreement entered into under section 3(b).
3.
Western South Dakota water supply project feasibility study
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
The Secretary, in consultation with the West Dakota Water Development District, through a cooperative agreement, may undertake a study to determine the feasibility of constructing a project to supply municipal, rural, and industrial water from the Missouri River to the Western Dakota Regional Water System.
(2)
Requirement
The study under paragraph (1) shall comply with the reclamation feasibility standards.
(b)
Cooperative agreement
If the Secretary determines that the study under subsection (a) does not comply with the reclamation feasibility standards, the Secretary may enter into a cooperative agreement with the Western Dakota Regional Water System to complete additional work to ensure that the study under that subsection complies with the reclamation feasibility standards.
(c)
Federal share
The Federal share of the total costs of carrying out the feasibility study under this section shall not exceed 50 percent.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $10,000,000.
(e)
Termination of authority
The authority provided by this section expires on the date that is 10 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
