1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Human Trafficking Awareness Training Act
.
2.
Human trafficking training
(a)
In general
Subtitle H of title VIII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after section 884 (
6 U.S.C. 464
) the following new section:
884A.
Human trafficking training
(a)
In general
The Director of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) is authorized, in accordance with this section, to establish a human trafficking awareness training program within the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers.
(b)
Training purposes
The human trafficking awareness training program referred to in subsection (a), shall, if established, provide to State, local, Tribal, territorial, and educational institution law enforcement personnel training courses relating to the following:
(1)
An in-depth understanding of the definition of human trafficking.
(2)
An ability to recognize indicators of human trafficking.
(3)
Information on industries and common locations known for human trafficking.
(4)
Human trafficking response measures, including a victim-centered approach.
(5)
Human trafficking reporting protocols.
(6)
An overview of Federal statutes and applicable State law related to human trafficking.
(7)
Additional resources to assist with suspected human trafficking cases, as necessary.
(c)
Integration with existing programs
To the extent practicable, human trafficking awareness training, including principles and learning objectives, should be integrated into other training programs operated by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers.
(d)
Coordination
The Director of FLETC, or the designee of such Director, shall coordinate with the Director of the Department’s Blue Campaign, or the designee of such Director, in the development and delivery of human trafficking awareness training programs.
(e)
Human trafficking defined
In this section, the term
human trafficking
means an act or practice described in paragraph (11) or (12) of section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7102
).
(f)
Authorization of Appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $2,300,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2029.
.
(b)
Technical amendment
Subsection (a) of section 434 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 242
) is amended by striking
paragraph (9) or (10)
and inserting
paragraph (11) or (12)
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 884 the following new item:
Sec. 884A. Human trafficking training.
.
