1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
ThinkDIFFERENTLY About Disability Employment Act
.
2.
Memorandum of understanding to increase employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Small Business Administration, in consultation with the Chair of the National Council on Disability, shall—
(1)
provide assistance to individuals with disabilities who desire to become entrepreneurs or to be self-employed;
(2)
help individuals with disabilities find employment at small business concerns (as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
));
(3)
assist small business concerns with hiring individuals with disabilities and with accessibility issues applicable to individuals with disabilities.
(b)
Memorandum of understanding or agreement
The Administrator, in consultation with the Chair, shall carry out and coordinate the activities described in subsection (a) by entering into one or more memoranda of understanding or other appropriate agreements.
(c)
Outreach and education
In carrying out the activities described in subsection (a), the Administrator, in consultation with the Chair, shall conduct outreach and education about such activities.
(d)
Report
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation with the Chair, shall submit to Congress a report on activities carried out pursuant to any memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b) that includes the following:
(1)
A description of how the Administrator, in consultation with the Chair, carried out such activities.
(2)
An analysis of opportunities to expand the technical capabilities of the Small Business Administration in carrying out such activities.
(3)
A description of achievements under any such memorandum or agreement.
(4)
A description of the plans of the Administrator, in consultation with the Chair, to continue activities to expand employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities.
3.
Compliance with CUTGO
No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act or the amendments made by this Act.
