1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protect Economic Freedom Act
.
2.
Ineligibility of institutions of higher education participating in a nonexpressive commercial boycott of Israel
(a)
Ineligibility
Part B of title I of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1011 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
124.
Ineligibility of institutions participating in a nonexpressive commercial boycott of Israel
(a)
In general
Not later than July 31 of each year, an institution of higher education that participates in any program under title IV shall certify to the Secretary that the institution will not engage in a nonexpressive commercial boycott of Israel for the period beginning on the date of such certification and ending on July 31 of the following year.
(b)
Public availability of list; notification
Not later than 7 business days after July 31 of each year, the Secretary shall—
(1)
identify and make publicly available on a website of the Department a list of all institutions of higher education described in
subsection (a)
that did not submit a certification under such subsection for such year; and
(2)
notify each institution of higher education identified pursuant to
paragraph (1)
of such identification and inclusion on such list.
(c)
Nonexpressive commercial boycott of Israel defined
In this section, the term
nonexpressive commercial boycott of Israel
—
(1)
means a commercial action (including engaging in refusals to deal and terminating business activities) that is intended to limit commercial relations with Israel or persons or entities doing business in Israel or in Israeli-controlled territories; and
(2)
does not include actions described in regulations issued to provide for the exceptions described in section 1773(a)(2) of the Anti-Boycott Act of 2018 (
50 U.S.C. 4842(a)(2)
).
.
(b)
Program participation agreement
Section 487(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1094(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(30)
The institution will comply with the requirement of section 124.
.
