1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
President Donald J. Trump Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress find the following:
(1)
On November 8, 2016, Donald J. Trump was elected the 45th President of the United States.
(2)
President Trump’s time in office ushered in profound changes to United States diplomatic relations with countries around the world.
(3)
On June 30, 2019, President Trump made history by becoming the first sitting United States President to cross into North Korea for a meeting with Kim Jong Un in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) between North and South Korea.
(4)
During this visit, President Trump facilitated an unprecedented brief meeting between Kim Jong Un and South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in. During his conversations, President Trump worked to resume stalled nuclear talks and expressed hope for peace between North and South Korea.
(5)
On September 15, 2020, President Trump established historic diplomatic relations between Israel and its neighbors in the Middle East through the Abraham Accords.
(6)
The Abraham Accords were a series of agreements to normalize relations between Israel and its regional neighbors. The Abraham Accords consisted of a general declaration that recognized the importance of maintaining and strengthening peace in the Middle East.
(7)
The general declaration was signed alongside bilateral agreements between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Morocco to normalize relations between the countries.
(8)
President Trump commemorated the Abraham Accords by welcoming Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bahrain Dr. Abdullatif bin Rashid Al-Zayani, and Minister of Foreign Affairs for the United Arab Emirates Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyanisigns to the White House for the Abraham Accords Signing Ceremony.
(9)
The greatest of President Trump’s foreign policy achievements was that no wars were started while he was in office.
3.
Congressional Gold Medals
(a)
Presentation authorization
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design, to President Donald J. Trump, in recognition of his exceptional leadership and dedication to strengthening America's diplomatic relations during his presidency.
(b)
Design and striking
For the purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike the gold medals with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3 under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck pursuant to this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
The amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
