1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing Infrastructure from Adversaries Act
.
2.
Prohibition on operation, procurement, and contracting related to foreign-made LiDAR technology
(a)
Prohibition on agency operation or procurement
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Transportation may not—
(A)
procure or obtain any LiDAR produced or provided by a covered LiDAR company; or
(B)
enter into a contract or extend or renew a contract with any entity unless such entity certifies to the Secretary that no LiDAR produced or provided by a covered LiDAR company will be used in performance of the contract with the Department of Transportation.
(2)
Waiver
The Secretary may waive the restriction under paragraph (1) on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee of Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate not later than 15 days before an activity is carried out for which such a restriction applies that such activity is required in the national interest of the United States.
(b)
Prohibition on use of loans or grant funds
In entering into an agreement with an entity with respect to which the Secretary provides loan or grant funds to such entity, the Secretary shall ensure that no such funds may be obligated or expended to procure, obtain, or use LiDAR produced or provided by a covered LiDAR company.
(c)
Applicability
This section shall apply to any obligation or expenditure of funds, or contract entered into, on or after June 30, 2026.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered foreign country
The term
covered foreign country
means the People’s Republic of China, Iran, North Korea, and Russia.
(2)
Covered LiDAR company
The term
covered LiDAR company
means any entity, or any subsidiary, affiliate, or licensee of said entity, that produces or provides LiDAR and is included—
(A)
on the Consolidated Screening List maintained by the International Trade Administration of the Department of Commerce; or
(B)
as a Chinese military company pursuant to section 1260h of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (
10 U.S.C. 113
note).
(3)
LiDAR
The term
LiDAR
mean a sensor that—
(A)
emits light, including in the form of a pulsed or modulated laser; and
(B)
scans or flashes the environment to detect and measure the range of the surroundings of such sensor.
