1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small Business Transportation Investment Act of 2024
.
2.
Program to sell surplus Government motor vehicles to small businesses that provide ground transportation service
(a)
Establishment of program
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services shall establish a program that offers for purchase one half of the annual inventory of motor vehicles that are surplus property from the Federal fleet to a covered small business before offering for purchase to any other buyer.
(b)
Price
The Administrator shall sell any such motor vehicle to a covered small business for the price that is the lower of the following at the time of sale:
(1)
At cost, after deducting any cost of administering the program and taking into consideration the depreciation of the motor vehicle.
(2)
Open market value.
(c)
Type of motor vehicle offered
The Administrator shall offer for purchase to a covered small business the motor vehicles that are the largest and most recent fuel-efficient models of the motor vehicles that are surplus property.
(d)
Terms of purchase
(1)
Operator agreement
To participate in the program established under subsection (a), the operator of a covered small business shall agree to the following terms:
(A)
The operator shall use each motor vehicle that is purchased through the program to provide ground transportation service.
(B)
The operator shall continue to use any such motor vehicle to provide ground transportation service for not less than two years after the purchase of the motor vehicle unless the motor vehicle becomes unable to operate during that period.
(C)
If the operator sells any such motor vehicle before the end of the two-year period, the operator shall reimburse the Administrator in the amount that is the difference between the open market value of the motor vehicle and the amount that the operator paid to the Administrator for the motor vehicle.
(D)
The operator shall donate not less than one out of every five of such motor vehicles to a local nonprofit organization after the motor vehicle is no longer used to provide ground transportation service.
(2)
Maximum number of vehicles that may be purchased annually
An operator may not purchase through the program established under subsection (a) more than 50 vehicles in any fiscal year.
(e)
Exemption from certain property disposal requirements
The program established under subsection (a) shall not be subject to—
(1)
subchapter IV of chapter 5, title 40, United States Code;
(2)
sections 545, 549, and 553 of title 40, United States Code;
(3)
any other provision of law authorizing the no-cost conveyance of motor vehicles owned by the Federal Government; or
(4)
any congressional notification requirement other than that in subsection (f) of this Act.
(f)
Report and recommendations
Not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report that contains the following:
(1)
A review of the program established under subsection (a).
(2)
A recommendation to continue or end the program.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of General Services.
(2)
Covered small business
The term
covered small business
means a small business that provides ground transportation service.
(3)
Ground transportation service
The term
ground transportation service
—
(A)
means transportation for a passenger that is provided—
(i)
for compensation; and
(ii)
in a motor vehicle, including a taxicab, shuttle, over-the-road bus, or limousine; and
(B)
includes paratransit transportation and non-emergency medical transportation.
(4)
Non-emergency medical transportation
The term
non-emergency medical transportation
means the provision of transportation services for individuals who require assistance in traveling to and from medical appointments, treatments, or healthcare facilities, but do not require immediate emergency medical intervention.
(5)
Nonprofit organization
The term
nonprofit organization
means an organization described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such code.
(6)
Over-the-road bus
The term
over-the-road bus
has the meaning given that term in section 13102 of title 49, United States Code.
(7)
Small business
The term
small business
has the meaning given the term
small business concern
in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
).
(8)
Surplus property
The term
surplus property
has the meaning given that term in section 102 of title 40, United States Code.
