1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prison Staff Safety Enhancement Act
.
2.
Addressing sexual harassment and sexual assault of Bureau of Prisons staff
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Correctional officer
The term
correctional officer
has the meaning given the term in section 4051 of title 18, United States Code.
(2)
Inspector General
The term
Inspector General
means the Inspector General of the Department of Justice.
(3)
Incarcerated individual
The term
incarcerated individual
has the meaning given the term
prisoner
in section 4051 of title 18, United States Code.
(4)
Sexual assault
The term
sexual assault
means an act described in subsection (b), (c), or (d) of section 920 of title 10, United States Code.
(5)
Sexual harassment
The term
sexual harassment
means unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature that explicitly or implicitly affect an individual’s employment, unreasonably interfere with an individual’s work performance, or create an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.
(b)
Review and analysis
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Inspector General shall carry out a comprehensive statistical review and analysis of the incidence and effects of sexual harassment and sexual assault perpetrated by incarcerated individuals against a correctional officer or other employee of the Bureau of Prisons.
(2)
Analysis
The review and analysis required under paragraph (1) shall include an analysis of punishments for sexual harassment and sexual assault as of the date of enactment of this Act in facilities controlled by the Bureau of Prisons, including data on the use of such punishments during the 5-year period preceding the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Report
Not later than 180 days after completing the review and analysis under subsection (b)(1), the Inspector General shall submit to the Attorney General and to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report that summarizes the findings of the review and analysis.
(d)
Rulemaking
Not later than 1 year after receiving the report under subsection (c), the Attorney General shall promulgate a rule adopting national standards for prevention, reduction, and punishment of sexual harassment and sexual assault perpetrated by an incarcerated individual against a correctional officer or other employee of the Bureau of Prisons.
