1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Abolishing Woke Awards for Research and Development Act of 2024
.
2.
Requiring NIH To select awardees based on merit
Part A of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 281 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
404P.
Requiring NIH To select awardees based on merit
(a)
In general
The National Institutes of Health (including any officer thereof)—
(1)
shall select the recipients of grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, or other awards based only on—
(A)
the merits of the proposals; and
(B)
the intrinsic research, development, and scientific benefits of the proposals; and
(2)
shall not mandate the use of diversity statements or any other diversity, equity, and inclusion material or documentation as a qualification for, or condition of receipt of, an award.
(b)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to prevent the National Institutes of Health from conducting or supporting the disaggregation of data by population for purposes of conducting research or developing products.
(c)
Definition
In this section, the term
diversity statement
means any written or oral statement discussing—
(1)
the race, sex, color, ethnicity, gender identity, or sexual orientation of the person making the statement;
(2)
the views of the person making the statement on, experience with, or contributions to—
(A)
diversity, equity, and inclusion;
(B)
marginalized groups;
(C)
anti-racism;
(D)
social justice;
(E)
intersectionality;
(F)
confessing one's race-based privilege; or
(G)
related concepts;
(3)
the views of the person making the statement on, experience with the race, sex, color, ethnicity, gender identity, or sexual orientation of students and co-workers; or
(4)
the views of the person making the statement regarding any theory or practice that advocates for the differential treatment of any individual or groups of individuals based on race, sex, color, gender, ethnicity, gender identity, or sexual orientation.
.
