1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Military Lodging Reform Act of 2023
.
2.
Authority to operate certain transient housing of the Department of Defense transferred to Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment
(a)
Transfer of authority
(1)
Assignment
Paragraph (7) of section 138(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
The Assistant Secretary is responsible, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, for all matters relating to lodging intended to be occupied by members of the Armed Forces that require such lodging due to a temporary duty assignment or a permanent change of station order.
.
(2)
Transfer
(A)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall transfer each duty or responsibility relating to covered transient housing to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment.
(B)
Certification
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a certification that the transfer required under subparagraph (A) has been completed.
(3)
Coordination on covered transient housing
(A)
Army transient housing
On matters relating to covered transient housing of the Department of the Army, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall coordinate with the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations, Energy, and Environment.
(B)
Navy transient housing
On matters relating to covered transient housing of the Department of the Navy, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall coordinate with the Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Energy, Installations, and Environment).
(C)
Air Force transient housing
On matters relating to covered transient housing of the Department of the Air Force, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall coordinate with the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Energy, Installations and Environment.
(b)
References
Any reference in law, regulation, guidance, instruction, or other document of the Federal Government to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness with respect to covered transient housing shall be deemed to refer to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment.
(c)
Covered transient housing defined
In this section, the term
covered transient housing
means lodging intended to be occupied by members of the Armed Forces that require such lodging due to—
(1)
a temporary duty assignment; or
(2)
a permanent change of station order.
