1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act
or the
CLASS Act
.
2.
Prohibition on funding from and contracts with the Government of the People’s Republic of China and the Chinese Communist Party
As a condition on receipt of Federal financial assistance under any applicable program by a public elementary school or public secondary school, the school may not accept funds from or enter into a contract with—
(1)
the Government of the People’s Republic of China;
(2)
the Chinese Communist Party; or
(3)
any individual or entity acting directly or indirectly on behalf of such Government or Party.
3.
Disclosure of foreign funding and contracts
As a condition on receipt of Federal financial assistance under any applicable program by a public elementary school or public secondary school, the school shall, not later than 30 days after receiving funds or entering into a contract with a foreign source, submit to the Secretary of Education a written disclosure that identifies—
(1)
the name and country of origin of the foreign source;
(2)
in a case in which a school receives funds from a foreign source—
(A)
the amount of funds received from that source; and
(B)
any terms or conditions applicable to the receipt of such funds; and
(3)
in a case in which a school enters into a contract with a foreign source, the terms and conditions of such contract.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
applicable program
has the meaning given that term in section 400 of the General Education Provisions Act (
20 U.S.C. 1221
).
(2)
The terms
elementary school
and
secondary school
have the meanings given those terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(3)
The term
Federal financial assistance
has the meaning given that term in section 7501(a)(5) of title 31, United States Code.
(4)
The term
foreign source
has the meaning given that term in section 117(h) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1011f(h)
).
