1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Tribal Families Act of 2024
.
2.
Effective implementation of the Indian Child Welfare Act of
1978
Subpart 1 of part B of title IV of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 621 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
429B.
Effective implementation of the Indian Child Welfare Act of
1978
(a)
In general
Not later than January 1, 2025, the Secretary, in consultation with Indian tribal organizations and States, shall develop a plan and provide technical assistance supporting effective implementation of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, including specific measures identified in State plans as required by section 422(b)(9) of this Act. The technical assistance plan shall be based upon data sufficient to assess State strengths and areas for improvement in implementing Federal standards established under the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, including, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
Timely identification of Indian children and extended family members.
(2)
Timely tribal notice of State child custody proceedings.
(3)
Reports of cases in which a transfer of jurisdiction (as defined under the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978) was granted or was not granted, and reasons specified for denial in cases where transfer was denied.
(4)
In cases in which a State court orders a foster care placement, whether requirements for active efforts to prevent the breakup of the Indian family, testimony of a qualified expert witness, and evidentiary standards were met.
(5)
Whether an Indian child was placed in a placement that is required to be preferred under the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, and if not, the reasons specified.
(6)
In cases in which a State court orders the termination of parental rights, whether requirements for active efforts to prevent the breakup of the Indian family, testimony of a qualified expert witness, and evidentiary standards were met.
(b)
Interagency coordination
On request of the Secretary, the Secretary of the Interior shall provide the Secretary with such guidance and assistance as may be necessary to facilitate informing States and public child welfare agencies on how to comply with the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, including specific measures identified in State plans as required by section 422(b)(9) of this Act.
(c)
Biennial reports to Congress
The Secretary shall biennially submit to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a written report on how—
(1)
the States are complying with the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, as required by section 422(b)(9) of this Act; and
(2)
the Secretary is assisting States and Indian Tribes to improve implementation of Federal standards established under the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978.
.
