1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Confidence in Elections: District of Columbia Photographic Poll Books Act
.
2.
Requirements for photos in poll books with respect to District of Columbia elections
(a)
Requirements
Title III of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21081 et seq.
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating sections 304 and 305 as sections 305 and 306, respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after section 303 the following new section:
304.
Inclusion of photos in poll books with respect to a District of Columbia election
(a)
Methods for obtaining photos
(1)
Provision of photos by offices of District of Columbia government
If any office of the District of Columbia government has a photograph or digital image of the likeness of an individual who is eligible to vote in a District of Columbia election, the office, in consultation with the chief election official of the District of Columbia, shall provide access to the photograph or digital image to the chief election official of the District of Columbia.
(2)
Taking of photos at polling place
If a photograph or digital image of an individual who votes in person at a polling place is not included in the poll book which contains the name of the individuals who are eligible to vote in the District of Columbia election and which is used by election officials to provide ballots to such eligible individuals, the appropriate election official shall take a photograph of the individual and provide access to the photograph to the chief election official of the District of Columbia.
(3)
Copies of photos provided by individuals not voting in person
The election official who receives a copy of a valid photo identification which is submitted by an individual who desires to vote other than in person at a polling place shall provide access to the copy of the identification to the chief election official of the District of Columbia.
(b)
Inclusion in poll books
The chief election official of the District of Columbia shall ensure that a photograph, digital image, or copy of an identification for which access is provided under subsection (a) is included in the poll book which contains the name of the individuals who are eligible to vote in the District of Columbia election and which is used by election officials to provide ballots to such eligible individuals.
(c)
Protection of privacy of voters
The appropriate election officials of the District of Columbia shall ensure that any photograph, digital image, or copy of an identification which is included in a poll book under this section is not used for any purpose other than the administration of District of Columbia elections and is not provided or otherwise made available to any other person except as may be necessary to carry out that purpose.
(d)
District of Columbia election defined
In this section, the term
District of Columbia election
means any election for public office in the District of Columbia, including an election for Federal office, and any ballot initiative or referendum.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment relating to enforcement
Section 401 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21111
) is amended by striking
and 303
and inserting
303, and 304
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended—
(1)
by redesignating the items relating to sections 304 and 305 as relating to sections 305 and 306, respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after the item relating to section 303 the following new item:
Sec. 304. Inclusion of photos in poll books with respect to a District of Columbia election.
.
