Executive Order  —   
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of   approved   (40 Stat. 559), entitled "An act to prevent in time of war departure from or entry into   contrary to the public safety," as extended by the act of   of   (41 Stat.  ), entitled "An act making appropriations for   for  ," and with reference to the act of   of   (43 Stat. 153), as amended, known as the "Immigration Act of 1924," I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the entry of aliens into  . (In addition to the general immigration laws and regulations, there are special laws and regulations governing the admission of  .)

I

Immigrants

Immigrants must present immigration visas, quota or  , in accordance with the requirements of the Immigration Act of  , except—

(1) Children born subsequent to the issuance of the immigration visa of the accompanying parent. ( . 13(a) (1), Immigration Act of  .) Such children are not required to present documents of any kind.

(2) Aliens who have previously been admitted legally into  , have departed therefrom and returned within  , not having proceeded to countries other than  ,  ,  , Miquelon,  ,  ,  , and other islands included in the Bahama and Greater Antilles groups, are not required to present passports, visas, or permits to reenter.

(3) Aliens, other than those specified in (2) above, who have previously been admitted legally into  , have departed therefrom, and are returning from a temporary visit abroad, may present, in lieu of immigration visas, permits to reenter, issued pursuant to section 10 of the Immigration Act of  .

With reference to section 28(

e

) of the Immigration Act of  , the Executive Secretary of  ,  ,  , is hereby authorized to issue immigration visas to aliens coming to   from the Canal Zone;   is hereby authorized to issue immigration visas to aliens coming to   from  ; the Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue immigration visas to aliens coming to   from  ; and the Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue immigration visas to aliens coming to   from  .

II

Nonimmigrants

With the exceptions hereinafter specified, nonimmigrants must present passports or official documents in the nature of passports issued by the governments of the countries to which they owe allegiance, duly visaed by consular officers of  ;

Provided, however

, That no passport vise or transit certificate to enter   or the   Islands shall he granted to such an alien if such entry would be contrary to the public safety.

Exceptions

(1) Persons in transit through   or   to a foreign destination. They may present transit certificates according to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of  .

(2) Aliens who are through passengers on vessels touching at ports of  . In this connection the term " " is to be construed as in section 1 of the Immigration Act of  . They may land temporarily, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of  ; without documents of any kind.

(3) Passports may include any person or persons whose inclusion is proper under the regulations of the issuing government and whose photographs are attached thereto.

(4)   and Miquelon and   citizens domiciled therein; citizens of  ,  ,  , the  , and   possessions in  , and   subjects domiciled therein; citizens of  ,  ,  ,  , and  . Such persons may pass in transit through  , or enter   temporarily, without passports, visas, or transit certificates.

(5) Seamen. Masters of vessels of all nationalities sailing for a port of   must submit for visa a list of all the alien members of the vessel's crew to the   consular officer at the port from which the vessel commences its voyage. If there is no   consular officer stationed at that port, the crew list should be submitted at the first port of call (if the vessel touches at any other port) where an   consular officer is located. This does not refer to consular agents, who are not authorized to visa crew lists. However, this paragraph has no application to members of crews of vessels sailing between ports of   and ports of  ,  ,  , and   and not touching at ports of other countries. Such persons are not required to be documented.

When a vessel sails from a port where no   consul is stationed, but which is within a few hours reach by mail of an   consulate, so that unreasonable delay and serious loss would not result from referring the crew list to such consulate, it should be referred thereto for visa.

The visa of a shipping commissioner in the Canal Zone shall be accepted as equivalent to the visa of an   consul.

If an alien seaman whose name is not included in a visaed crew list arrives at a port of   he shall not be allowed to land except upon the permission of the Secretary of  .

(6) Aliens making round-trip cruises from   ports without transshipment from the original vessel to another one while en route, provided the original contract for passage calls for transportation from an   port to the ports included in the cruise, and return to either the original or another   port, require no visas for reentry into  .

(7) Aliens of no nationality, and those who, when they apply for visas, are outside of the territories of the countries to which they owe allegiance and who, for any reason, are unable to obtain passports or documents in the nature of passports issued by the governments of such countries, and aliens bearing passports issued by governments not recognized by  . They may enter   with documents showing their origin and identity, visaed by consuls, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of  .

(8) In cases of emergency the Secretary of   is authorized in his discretion to waive passport and visa requirements for aliens who are non-immigrants as defined in section 3 of the Immigration Act of  , as amended, and who apply for admission at a port of entry of  .

III

(1) Aliens entering  , except those referred to in II(1) and II(2), must present passports or documents in the nature of passports, duly visaed by consular officers of  ; but seamen on vessels of all nationalities touching at a port of   are not required to be documented. Masters of such vessels are, therefore, not required to present visaed crew lists.

(2) Aliens entering any other   possessions not included under section 28(

a

) of the Immigration Act of  , do not require documents of any kind.

The definition contained in section 28 of the Immigration Act of   shall be regarded as applicable to this order, except as herein otherwise specified.

The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   are hereby authorized to make such additional rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this order, as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order and the statutes mentioned herein.

This order shall take effect immediately and shall supersede the Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Documents Required of Aliens Entering the United States," but shall not supersede Executive Order No. 4049 of  , entitled "Documents required of   entering   on  ," Executive Order No. 4648 of  , entitled "Documents Required of Bona Fide Alien Seamen Entering the United States as Passengers," or Executive Order No. 4690 of July 11,  , relative to Article XXII of the Consular Regulations of  .

 

 ,

 .
