Executive Order  —Restoration of United States Agricultural Experiment Station Lands in the Territory of Hawaii
 
 

Whereas

, by joint resolution of   (30 Stat. 750), when   was annexed to  , it was provided that the existing land laws of   should not apply to lands in  , but that   should make special laws for their management and disposition; and

Whereas

, by section 91 of the act of   (31 Stat. 159),   provided that the public property ceded and transferred to   by   should remain in the possession, use, and control of the government of the   pf  , until otherwise provided for by   or "taken for the uses and purposes of   by direction of the President or of the Governor of  "; and

Whereas

the Acting Governor of  ,  , under the authority of the said act of  , did, by proclamation dated  , declare that a certain tract of land known as  -uka on Punchbowl Hill,  ,  , was "taken for the uses and purposes of  " and said tract has since been used by   for an experiment station; and

Whereas

, by the act of   (36 Stat. 447), section 91 of the said act of  , was amended so as to provide that any such property in Haw aii as should be taken for the uses and purposes of  , in accordance with the act of  , might be "restored to its previous status by direction of the President"; and

Whereas

the Governor of the Territory of Hawaii desires to have returned to the possession, use, and control of the Territorial government a certain portion of said tract of land, amounting to thirty (30) acres, more or less, as hereinafter more particularly described, in order that it may be used, together with other adjacent lands already in control of that government, for home sites by the people of  ; and

Whereas

  is willing to relinquish its use of the said 30 acres in favor of its proposed use, as aforesaid, by the Territorial government of  ;

Now, therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforesaid act of  , I do direct that the thirty (30) acres of land, more or less, as hereinafter more particularly described, being a portion of said tract of land known as  -uka, be, and the same is hereby,, restored to its previous status in the possession, use, and control of the government of the Territory of  .

The tract of land intended to be restored as aforesaid is more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at the northeast corner of the portion of land to be restored as aforesaid, at a place called   on the boundary between the lands of   and  , the coordinates of said point of beginning referred to Government survey triangulation station "Punchbowl" being 3,255.6 feet north and 5,244.7 feet east, as shown on Government Survey Registered Map No.  , and running by true azimuths:

1. 354° 30'—930.0 feet along the remainder of the land of  , to the middle of the stream which divides the lands of   and  ;

2. Thence down the middle of said stream along the land of  , the direct azimuth and distance being 49° 16'—1,512.5 feet;

3. 141° 12'—860.0 feet along the remainder of the land of  ;

4. 231° 12'—552.6 feet along the land of   to   lole;

5. Thence still along the land of   following the top of the ridge to the point of beginning, the direct azimuth and distance being 232° 26'—1,470.0 feet.

Containing an area of 30 acres, more or less.

HERBERT HOOVER

 ,

 .
