Executive Order 5800—Transfer of Lands from the   and Beartooth National Forests to  ,  
 
 

Under authority of the act of   approved   (30 Stat. 11, 36;  , title 16,  . 473), and on the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is hereby ordered that the following-described lands now parts of   as defined by proclamation of   (37 Stat.  ), and modified by the act of   (44 Stat. 655-657), and   as defined by proclamation of   (37 Stat.  ), be, and the same are hereby, transferred to  From  All lands now a part thereof to the south and west of a line beginning at Sunset Peak in the unsurveyed portion of T. 9 S.,   14 E.,  ; thence eastward along the hydrographic divide between Stillwater River,  ,  , and the forks of Rock Creek on the north and   and the   drainage of the Yellowstone River on the south, passing over  , Mount Zimmer,  ,  ,  , and along Beartooth Plateau to an intersection with the  -Wyoming State line about one mile east of the southwest corner of unsurveyed  ,  .

From  All lands now a part thereof lying south and east of the following-described line: Beginning at the southeast corner of  . 8, T. 4 S.,   8 E.,  ; thence westerly 2 miles along section lines to the southwest corner of  . 7, said township; thence south approximately one-quarter mile along range line to a point where this line is intersected by the hydrographic divide between   on the north and Dry Creek on the south; thence southwesterly along said hydrographic divide to an intersection with the hydrographic divide between   and   on the north and   on the south; thence in a northwesterly direction along said divide to an intersection with the main hydrographic divide between the Gallatin River on the west and the Yellowstone River on the east; thence in a general southwesterly direction along said divide passing over  ,  ,   and Ramshorn Mountain to an intersection with the present   National Park boundary at the head of  ; thence following southerly and easterly along   boundary to its intersection with the present boundary of  ; also secs. 1 and 12, T. 3 S., R. 7 E.; secs. 1 to 12 inclusive,  ; and secs. 4 to 9 inclusive,  ,   9 E.—all Montana meridian.

The transfers effected by this order and the new boundaries of   are more clearly shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof. It is not intended by this order to give any publicly owned lands a national-forest status which have hitherto not had such status, nor to remove any publicly owned lands from a national-forest status.

 

 ,

 .

 'S NOTE: The diagram accompanying the   order is filed with the original in  .
