Executive Order  —Transfer of Lands from   to  , and from   to  ,  
 
 

Under authority of the act of   approved   (30 Stat. 11, 36;  , title 16,  . 473), and on the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is hereby ordered that the following-described lands, now parts of   as defined by proclamation of   (36 Stat.   ), as subsequently modified, and of   as defined by proclamation of   (38 Stat. 1944–1945), as subsequently modified, be, and the same are hereby, transferred to  :

FROM  

All lands lying in T. 4 N.,   10 E., Tps. 3 N., Rs. 10 and 11 E., and   10 E., Boise meridian, east of a line beginning at a point on the south line of  . 33, T. 5 N.,   10 E., Boise meridian, where the divide separating the drainage of Steel Creek and   on the west from Feather River drainage on the east intersects said section line; thence southerly following said divide to the point of confluence of   with Feather River; thence southerly following Feather River and Boise River to the intersection of the latter with the south line of  . 5,     10 E., Boise meridian; also all lands in said   in  . 1 N., Rs. 10,  , and 12 E., and Tps. 1 S., Rs. 10 and 11 E., Boise meridian, lying east of a line beginning on the south line of  . 15, T. 1 N.,   10 E., where the divide between Moores,  , and   on the east, and  ,  , Cat, and   on the west intersects said section line; thence southerly following said divide to the point where it intersects the south line of  .  ,  ,   10 E., Boise meridian.

FROM  

All lands in  . 10 N., Rs. 12 and 13 E. and in unsurveyed secs. 1 and 12, T. 9 N.,   12 E., Boise meridian, lying south of a line beginning at the point where the present boundary of said   intersects the east range line of  ; thence in a southwesterly direction following the divide which separates the waters of   on the north and   on the south; thence crossing the Salmon River in  . 26,   E. Boise Meridian to the divide between   and Goat Creek on the north, and   on the south; thence continuing along said divide to   (Iron triangulation station).

It is further ordered that the following-described lands now a part of   as defined by proclamation of   (38 Stat. 1946-  ), as subsequently modified, be, and the same are hereby, transferred to  All lands lying to the west of that part of the Atlanta Road beginning at the point where said road intersects the east line of  . 22, T. 5 N.,   10 E., Boise meridian; thence in a southwesterly direction along said road to a point in  . 33, said township, where the divide between   on the east and Steel Creek on the west intersects said road; thence in a southeasterly direction following said divide to its intersection with the south line of said  . 33; also that part of  . 22,   10 E., lying south and west of Feather River.

The transfers effected by this order and the new boundaries of   are more clearly shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof. It is not intended by this order to give any publicly owned lands a national-forest status which have hitherto not had such status nor to remove any publicly owned lands from a national-forest status.

 

 ,

 .
