1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Honoring our K9 Heroes Act
.
2.
Program to establish increased access to medical care for retired Federal working dogs through certain homeland security grants
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title XX of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 603 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2010.
Grants for increased access to medical care for retired Federal working dogs
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a grant program under which eligible entities may enter into an agreement with the Secretary to cover a portion of medical care expenses for retired Federal working dogs described in subsection (d).
(b)
Eligible entities
An entity is eligible to receive a grant under the program established pursuant to subsection (a) if such entity—
(1)
is described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code;
(2)
provides assistance for medical care for retired Federal law enforcement and military working dogs; and
(3)
prior to the date of application, has not less than a two-year history of providing such assistance.
(c)
Applications
To be eligible to receive a grant under the program, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(d)
Retired Federal working dogs described
A retired Federal working dog described in this subsection—
(1)
has been issued a retirement letter from the Federal department or agency that employed such dog; and
(2)
is in the care of its handler.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2030.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2009 the following new item:
Sec. 2010. Grants for increased access to medical care for retired Federal working dogs.
.
