1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small Business Regulatory Reduction Act of 2025
.
2.
Small Business Administration rulemaking costs to small business concerns
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(2)
Rule; rulemaking
The terms
rule
and
rulemaking
have the meanings given those terms in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
Small business
The term
small business
has the same meaning as the term
small business concern
under section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
), unless an agency, after consultation with the Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration and after opportunity for public comment, establishes one or more definitions of such term which are appropriate to the activities of the agency and publishes such definition(s) in the Federal Register.
(4)
Small business regulatory budget
The term
small business regulatory budget
means the cost to a small business of a rulemaking conducted by a Federal agency, including the cost resulting from the issuance of any new rule and the cost resulting from the modification or repeal of an existing rule.
(b)
Requirement
In fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Administrator shall ensure that the small business regulatory budget for the Small Business Administration for the applicable fiscal year is not greater than zero.
(c)
Advocacy Report
Not later than 60 days after the end of fiscal year 2025, and annually thereafter, the Chief Counsel for the Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration shall submit to Congress a report regarding rules issued by Federal agencies other than the Administration during the preceding fiscal year that have an impact on small businesses, which shall—
(1)
include each such rule issued during the preceding fiscal year; and
(2)
be disaggregated by the Federal agency that issued each such rule.
3.
No additional funds
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act.
