1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Jens Stoltenberg served as the Prime Minister of Norway from 2000 to 2001 and 2005 to 2013.
(2)
Norway was a founding member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (referred to in this Act as
NATO
) on April 4, 1949.
(3)
As Prime Minister of Norway, Jens Stoltenberg oversaw Norway’s increased defense spending levels and the modernization of the Norwegian Armed Forces.
(4)
A primary objective of NATO is to provide security and support to member nations and promote democratic values to ensure stability and peace.
(5)
Jens Stoltenberg assumed the position of Secretary General of NATO in October 2014.
(6)
The United States was the first NATO member to support Jens Stoltenberg’s appointment as Secretary General.
(7)
Jens Stoltenberg has led NATO through significant new investments, reinforced its capabilities and enhanced the collective defense of the Alliance.
(8)
Jens Stoltenberg has advocated for greater burden sharing among members of the NATO Alliance, and under his leadership the Alliance will see 23 member countries reach or exceed the 2 percent defense spending commitment by 2024, compared to 4 member countries in 2014.
(9)
Jens Stoltenberg’s commitment to better burden sharing has resulted in a stronger and more sustainable Alliance than at any other time in NATO history.
(10)
Under Jens Stoltenberg’s leadership, NATO has successfully undergone multiple enlargement periods and has extended membership to Finland, Montenegro, North Macedonia and Sweden.
(11)
In addition to bolstering the collective security of the Alliance, NATO enlargement indicates that an increasing number of countries are meeting key benchmarks on the military, political and legal requirements needed for NATO accession, enhancing interoperability, defense expenditure and intelligence sharing among member countries.
(12)
Jens Stoltenberg has increased NATO’s partnerships with Indo-Pacific countries to cooperate more closely to address our shared global challenges including cyber defense, emergency technologies, and the multitude of challenges posed by the People’s Republic of China.
(13)
Jens Stoltenberg included Indo-Pacific leaders at NATO summits and traveled to the region which further cemented these important partnerships.
(14)
Following Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Jens Stoltenberg has led the Alliance in maintaining unprecedented unity against Putin’s unprovoked, illegal actions.
(15)
Since February 2022, NATO members have supplied Ukraine with the equipment and resources it needs to defend its democracy and its sovereignty.
(16)
Jens Stoltenberg successfully marshaled political and financial support from Indo-Pacific partners to support Ukraine, including contributions of munitions and military equipment and sizeable financial contributions to NATO’s Comprehensive Assistance Plan Action Trust Fund for Ukraine.
(17)
Jens Stoltenberg’s mandate was extended a total of 4 times with unanimous support by NATO allies, with 2 extensions agreed to following Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine.
(18)
Jens Stoltenberg is the second longest-serving Secretary General, serving over 9 years in this position.
(19)
Jens Stoltenberg has re-committed that the NATO Alliance will stand together against any threat posed to a NATO member, ensuring continued peace and stability within NATO territory and around the world.
3.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Award authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the award, on behalf of the Congress, of a single gold medal of appropriate design to Jens Stoltenberg, in recognition of his contributions to the security, unity, and defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
(b)
Design and striking
For purposes of the award referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary. The design shall bear an inscription of the name of Jens Stoltenberg.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck under section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the costs of the medals, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
Medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use Fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck under this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sales
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
