1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Scam And Fraud Evasion Act of 2025
or the
VSAFE Act of 2025
.
2.
Veterans Scam and Fraud Evasion Officer
(a)
In general
Chapter 3
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
325.
Veterans Scam and Fraud Evasion Officer
(a)
Establishment
There is in the Department a Veterans Scam and Fraud Evasion Officer, who shall be responsible for fraud and scam prevention, reporting, and incident response plans at the Department.
(b)
Responsibilities
The Veterans Scam and Fraud Evasion Officer shall carry out the following responsibilities:
(1)
Providing comprehensive communication from the Department to Department employees and veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors during strategic and time-sensitive fraud and scam incidents.
(2)
Establishing consistent guidance across the enterprise for employees as well as veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors on how to identify, report, and avoid fraud and scam attempts.
(3)
Promoting the Veteran Identity Health Theft Helpline of the Department (and any successor resource) and identifying other identity theft resources available to veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors, including with respect to actions made by the Secretary to protect the identities of veterans and their beneficiaries.
(4)
Developing methods to monitor fraud and scam metrics within the Department to—
(A)
provide internal and external reporting;
(B)
enable advanced data analytics; and
(C)
facilitate proactive and robust fraud and scam trend identification.
(5)
Developing comprehensive training plans for Department employees fielding fraud and scam inquiries and reports.
(6)
Coordinating with the Inspector General of the Department and other Federal departments and agencies, including the Executive Office of the President, the Office of Management and Budget, the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Justice, the Department of State, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Defense, the Department of Education, the Social Security Administration, and other relevant agencies to—
(A)
create a whole-of-Government view within the Department with respect to the fraud prevention efforts at other Federal departments and agencies;
(B)
identify the proper avenues for veterans to report fraud attempts and receive assistance; and
(C)
identify opportunities for coordination with such departments and agencies.
(7)
Consulting with veterans service organizations and State, local, and tribal governments, as necessary, to improve the understanding of fraud and scam risks within the Department.
(c)
Full-Time employees
Nothing in this section authorizes an increase in the number of full-time employees otherwise authorized for the Department.
(d)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Office of Inspector General of the Department as otherwise provided in this title or in
chapter 4
of title 5 (commonly referred to as the Inspector General Act of 1978).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
325. Veterans Scam and Fraud Evasion Officer.
.
3.
Modification of Department of Veterans Affairs home loan fees
The loan fee table in section 3729(b)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking
June 9, 2034
each place it appears and inserting
June 23, 2034
.
