1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safeguarding Homeland Immigration Enforcement from Local Detention Act of 2025
or as the
SHIELD Act of 2025
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds as follows:
(1)
The Constitution vests the Federal Government with exclusive authority over the enforcement of immigration laws.
(2)
Federal law enforcement officers acting within the scope of their duties must not be subject to arrest, detention, or prosecution by State or local jurisdictions for carrying out lawful immigration enforcement activities.
(3)
Certain jurisdictions have threatened or taken actions to impede Federal immigration enforcement, thereby undermining the rule of law and public safety.
3.
Prohibition on Federal funds to jurisdictions that arrest or prosecute Federal officers
(a)
In general
No Federal financial assistance may be made available to a State or political subdivision thereof that—
(1)
arrests, detains, or prosecutes a Federal law enforcement officer; or
(2)
otherwise interferes with or obstructs such officer, for actions taken by that officer in the lawful performance of their duties relating to the enforcement of Federal immigration law.
(b)
Determination
The Attorney General in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall determine whether a State or unit of local government has engaged in conduct described in subsection (a).
(c)
Ineligibility
For fiscal year 2026, and each fiscal year thereafter, a State or political subdivision thereof determined to have engaged in the conduct described in subsection (a) at any time during the fiscal year is ineligible to receive Federal financial assistance for that fiscal year.
(d)
Reallocation
Any Federal financial assistance that a State or political subdivision thereof is ineligible to receive pursuant to subsection (c) shall be reallocated to States or political subdivisions of States that are not ineligible under such section.
(e)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
Federal financial assistance
has the meaning given the term in section 7501 of title 31, United States Code.
(2)
The term
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
4.
Restoration of funding
Federal financial assistance withheld under section 3 shall be restored only if the Attorney General certifies the head of the Federal agency that administers such Federal financial assistance that the State or political subdivision thereof has ceased the offending conduct and has provided written assurances that such interference will not recur.
5.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
Federal law enforcement officer
means any officer, agent, or employee authorized by the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, or any other Federal agency to enforce immigration laws.
(2)
The term
Federal funds
includes any grant, contract, cooperative agreement, or other form of financial assistance provided by a Federal department or agency.
6.
Effective date
This Act shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
