1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Auto Bailout Accident Victims Recovery Act of 2025
.
2.
Settlement of accident victim litigation related to the General Motors bailout; Waiver of statute of limitations
(a)
Any eligible civil action arising from the filing of an eligible complaint alleging a violation of the takings clause of amendment V to the United States Constitution is not subject to any statute of limitations.
(b)
The United States shall pay just compensation to an eligible claimant, consistent with amendment V to the Constitution of the United States, to resolve an eligible claim. Just compensation payments to eligible claimants shall be made pursuant to section 1304 of title 31, United States Code.
(c)
If a settlement agreement has not been submitted to the court presiding over an eligible complaint within 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit a report to Congress describing the reasons why a settlement agreement was not reached with counsel of record to an eligible complaint.
3.
Definitions
For purposes of this Act, the following definitions shall apply:
(1)
The term
eligible claim
means a claim asserted in an eligible complaint on behalf of all eligible claimants.
(2)
The term
eligible claimant
means a plaintiff, class member, or putative class member represented in an eligible complaint who holds an eligible claim and who filed a proof of claim in the bankruptcy case captioned In re Motors Liquidation Company, et al., No. 09–50026 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y), based on death or personal injuries that were caused by or attributable to alleged defects in motor vehicles designed for operation on public roadways, or by the component parts of such motor vehicles, and in each case, manufactured, sold, or delivered by General Motors Corporation or any of its subsidiaries on or before June 1, 2009.
(3)
The term
eligible complaint
means the complaint filed with the United States Court of Federal Claims by or on behalf of eligible claimants on July 9, 2015, captioned Campbell, et al., v. United States, No. 15–717, alleging violation by the United States of amendment V to the Constitution in connection with the acquisition on July 10, 2009, by NGMCO, Inc., a United States Treasury-sponsored entity, of substantially all the assets of General Motors Corporation.
(4)
The term
just compensation
means payment of a lump-sum amount equal to the sum of—
(A)
2.5 times the
allowed amount
listed on the final claims register filed on June 3, 2021, in the In re Motors Liquidation Company et al. bankruptcy case in respect of a proof of claim filed by or on behalf of an eligible claimant, plus
(B)
interest thereon from July 10, 2009, to the effective date of settlement at a rate of three and one-half percent (3.5 percent) per annum, compounded quarterly, plus
(C)
reasonable court-approved fees and costs to counsel of record on the eligible complaint, all without offset of any kind.
