1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Nick Shirley Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds as follows:
(1)
On December 26, 2025, Nick Shirley posted a 42 minute investigative post on X uncovering mass fraud in the Minnesota Somali population against U.S. taxpayers. Nick Shirley stated on X:
Here is the full 42 minutes of my crew and I exposing Minnesota fraud, this might be my most important work yet. We uncovered over $110,000,000 in ONE day. Like it and share it around like wildfire! Its time to hold these corrupt politicians and fraudsters accountable We ALL work way too hard and pay too much in taxes for this to be happening, the fraud must be stopped.
.
(2)
Due to exemplary investigative journalism preformed by Nick Shirley, Federal funding to fraudulent businesses in Minnesota have been halted by President Trump.
3.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that Nick Shirley showed bravery, integrity, and dedication to the principles of the U.S. Constitution during the uncovering of historic levels of fraud, waste, and abuse under Governor Tim Walz and therefore deserves the Congressional Gold Medal.
4.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Presentation Authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Nick Shirley, in recognition of exemplary investigative journalism that uncovered waste, fraud, and abuse perpetrated against American taxpayers.
(b)
Design and striking
For purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
5.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 4, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
6.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
7.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck under this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 5 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
