1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Collision-Limiting Operational Upgrade for DOD Aircraft Act
or the
CLOUD Aircraft Act
.
2.
Department of Defense study on feasibility of equipping all military fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft with air-to-air and air-to-ground collision detection systems
(a)
Feasibility study required
The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, shall conduct a study on the feasibility of, and cost associated with, equipping all fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft of the Department of Defense that operate in highly trafficked domestic airspaces with air-to-air collision detection systems.
(b)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the results of the feasibility study required under subsection (a). Such report shall include the recommendations of the Secretary with respect to such results and a timeline for carrying out any such recommendations.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
air-to-air collision detection system
—
(A)
means an airborne system designed to detect and warn pilots of potential mid-air collisions with other aircraft equipped with transponders, allowing them to take evasive maneuvers to avoid a crash; and
(B)
is compatible with the system used by commercial aircraft that is commonly referred to as a
traffic alert and collision avoidance system
of a
TCAS
.
(2)
The term
air-to-ground collision detection system
means a system that uses radar, digital terrain maps, and other sensors to warn pilots of potential collisions, and if a collision is likely, to notify the pilot through a series of alarms or to automatically take control of the aircraft to avoid the collision.
(3)
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
(4)
The term
commercial service airport
has the meaning given the term in section 47102 of title 49, United States Code.
(5)
The term
operate in highly trafficked domestic airspaces
means, with respect to aircraft of the Department of Defense, that such aircraft are stationed on or near, and operate regular flight patterns within the surrounding class B, C, or D airspace of a commercial service airport.
