1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DHS Intelligence and Analysis Oversight and Transparency Act
.
2.
Annual audit of DHS Office of Intelligence and Analysis information systems and bulk data
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
210H.
Annual audit of information systems and bulk data
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Bulk data
The term
bulk data
means large quantities of data acquired without the use of discriminants, a significant portion of which are not reasonably likely to have intelligence or operational value.
(3)
Discriminants
The term
discriminants
means identifiers and selection terms.
(b)
Annual audits
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section and annually thereafter, the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department shall conduct an audit of the information systems and bulk data of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis, which shall be consistent with the intelligence oversight guidelines of the Office.
(c)
Notifications
The Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department shall provide the appropriate congressional committees with—
(1)
a notification not later than 30 days after the first analysis or other intelligence use by the Office of Intelligence and Analysis after the date of the enactment of this section of any new bulk data set and the associated terms and conditions; and
(2)
an update not later than 30 days after any changes to such associated terms and conditions related to the use of such a bulk data set.
(d)
Reports and review
(1)
Reports to Congress
Not later than 30 days after the conclusion of each audit under subsection (b), the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the findings and results of such audit.
(2)
GAO review
Not later than four years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Comptroller General of the United States shall provide the appropriate congressional committees a review of the implementation of the annual audit requirement under subsection (b), challenges to the implementation of such requirement, and recommendations for improving such audits.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–296
; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 210G the following:
Sec.210H. Annual audit of information systems and bulk data.
.
