1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Officially Limiting Yearly Money Procured by Individuals Concerning Sportmanship Act
or as the
OLYMPICS Act
.
2.
Tax on income earned from competing in global athletic events on behalf of foreign entities of concern
(a)
In general
Subtitle D of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:
50B
Certain income for representing foreign entities of concern at global athletic events
Sec. 5000E.
Imposition of tax on income earned from competing in global athletic events on behalf of foreign entities of concern.
5000E.
Imposition of tax on income earned from competing in global athletic events on behalf of foreign entities of concern
(a)
In general
There is hereby imposed on each covered individual for any taxable year a tax equal to 100 percent of the amounts received by such individual during such taxable year from—
(1)
competing in any global athletic event on behalf of any foreign entity of concern, and
(2)
any sponsorships received as a result of, or inducement for, so competing.
(b)
Covered individual
For purposes of this section—
(1)
In general
The term
covered individual
means any national of the United States or alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(2)
Certain terms
For purposes of paragraph (1), the terms
national of the United States
and
lawfully admitted for permanent residence
have the respective meanings given such terms under section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
).
(c)
Global athletic event
For purposes of this section, the term
global athletic event
means the Summer Olympics, Winter Olympics, World Cup, Tour de France, Wimbledon, and any other competition in which individuals participate as representatives of countries.
(d)
Foreign entity of concern
For purposes of this section, the term
foreign entity of concern
means any covered nation (as defined in section 4872(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code).
(e)
Special rules
(1)
Administrative provisions
For purposes of subtitle F, any tax imposed by this section shall be treated as a tax imposed by subtitle A.
(2)
Exclusion from gross income
For purposes of chapter 1, the gross income of any covered person for any taxable year shall not include any amount with respect to which tax is imposed under subsection (a).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of chapters for subtitle D of such Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to chapter 50A the following new item:
Chapter 50B—
Certain income for representing foreign entities of concern at global athletic events
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to amounts received after the date of the enactment of this Act.
