1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Move the ICC Out of NYC Act of 2025
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Senate ratified the Charter of the United Nations in 1945, finalizing the accession of the United States to the United Nations.
(2)
Congress enacted the Joint Resolution of August 4, 1947 (61 Stat. 756, chapter 482;
22 U.S.C. 287
note) (commonly known as the “United Nations Headquarters Agreement Act”) to authorize the United Nations headquarters in New York, New York.
(3)
The Senate has not ratified the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
(4)
The International Criminal Court has no jurisdiction within the United States or over United States persons.
(5)
The International Criminal Court maintains an office within the United Nations headquarters in New York, New York.
(6)
Since its approval by Congress, the United Nations Headquarters Agreement has been amended through supplemental agreements, with the United States Ambassador to the United Nations serving as representative of the United States.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
International Criminal Court; Rome Statute
The terms
International Criminal Court
and
Rome Statute
have the meaning given those terms in section 2013 of the American Service-Members’ Protection Act (
22 U.S.C. 7432
).
(2)
United Nations Headquarters Agreement
The term
United Nations Headquarters Agreement
means the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success on June 26, 1947, and entered into force on November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United States.
4.
Supplement to United Nations headquarters agreement
Not later than 30 days after the opening date of the 80th session of the United Nations General Assembly, the United States Ambassador to the United Nations shall seek to open negotiations at the United Nations for a supplemental agreement to the United Nations Headquarters Agreement to prohibit the United Nations from hosting, leasing, or otherwise allowing use of its facilities within the United States by the International Criminal Court.
