1.
Cost estimates by appropriately licensed professionals
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall use appropriately licensed professionals to perform any covered activity with respect to a project eligible for assistance under sections 406 or 428 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5172
;
42 U.S.C. 5189f
).
(b)
Requirements
(1)
Consent of appropriately licensed professional
The Administrator may not disapprove, with respect to a project described under subsection (a), any plan, rebuilding proposal, material suggestion for rebuilding, or direct purchase of materials without the direct consent of an appropriately licensed professional.
(2)
Purchase approval
Any purchase suggested by an appropriately licensed professional for any project described under subsection (a) shall be approved by the Administrator.
(3)
Acceptance of plans, projects, and materials
Unless fraud is evident and traceable, any plans proposed, projects prepared, and materials requested or purchased by an appropriately licensed professional may not be rejected, rescinded, or stalled by the Administrator.
(4)
Contract process
The Administrator may not reject or hinder the process of entering into a contract with an appropriately licensed professional if such process is suggested by a State or local government.
(5)
State hiring responsibility
It shall be the responsibility of the State to hire an appropriately licensed professional to develop the scope of work related to performing a covered activity.
(6)
Employee of FEMA
Any employee of the Agency that assists directly with the management of a rebuilding project eligible for assistance under section 406 or 428 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5172
;
42 U.S.C. 5189f
) shall be an appropriately licensed professional.
(c)
Regulations
The Administrator shall update regulations and policies, to the extent necessary, to implement the requirements of this Act.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriately licensed professional
The term
appropriately licensed professional
means an individual—
(A)
who is—
(i)
employed by the Agency to perform a covered activity; or
(ii)
contracted by the Agency or a State or local governmental entity; and
(B)
licensed—
(i)
in the State in which a project described under this section shall be carried out; and
(ii)
as an engineer, architect, builder, tradesperson, or any other profession related to performing a covered activity relating to such project.
(2)
Covered activity
The term
covered activity
includes—
(A)
preparing a cost estimate for a project eligible for assistance under section 406 or 428 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5172
;
42 U.S.C. 5189f
); and
(B)
purchasing the proper materials, equipment, vehicles, and any other items necessary to carry out a project described under subparagraph (A).
