1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No More SCAMS Act
or the
No More Shielding Corruption and Misuse in Spending Act
.
2.
Federal Fraud Interagency Task Force
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the President shall establish the Federal Fraud Interagency Task Force (hereinafter referred to as the
Task Force
) to investigate and combat fraud involving Federal dollars, enhance interagency anti-fraud coordination, and recover misused funds.
(b)
Appointment
(1)
Director
(A)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall appoint a Director of the Task Force to a 4 year term.
(B)
Qualifications
The Director appointed under subparagraph (A) shall have 10 years of experience in fraud investigation or Federal law enforcement.
(2)
Members
(A)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall appoint members of the Task Force from each covered agency.
(B)
Qualifications
A member appointed under subparagraph (A) shall be a subject matter expert with familiarity and technical expertise regarding Federal financial management, grants and procurement administration, auditing and compliance, forensic accounting, payment integrity, or fraud risk management, or in-depth knowledge of the schemes, methods, and typologies commonly used to defraud Federal programs and interagency funding streams.
(3)
Vacancy
A vacancy occurring in the membership of the Task Force shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
(c)
Duties
The Task Force shall—
(1)
investigate fraud allegations involving Federal dollars;
(2)
coordinate with State and local law enforcement for fraud investigations;
(3)
develop best practices for Federal agencies to prevent and identify fraud, including training programs;
(4)
facilitate interagency cooperation through data and resource sharing to expedite and streamline fraud investigation; and
(5)
utilize and integrate existing Federal initiatives and resources for detecting and combatting Federal fraud.
(d)
Reporting and oversight
(1)
Annual report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director of the Task Force, in consultation with the covered agencies, shall submit a report to the President, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, including—
(A)
the number of investigations initiated, cases referred for prosecution, and funds recovered;
(B)
contributions and activities relating to fraud carried out by covered agencies;
(C)
an analysis of fraud trends by sector and by covered agency; and
(D)
recommendations for improving fraud prevention and detection specific to covered agencies.
(2)
GAO audit
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Comptroller General shall conduct and audit of the operations and spending of the Task Force.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Fraud
The term
fraud
means the intentional perversion of the truth for the purpose of inducing another person in reliance upon it to part with something of value or to surrender a legal right.
(2)
Covered agency
The term
covered agency
includes the following:
(A)
The Department of State.
(B)
The Department of the Treasury.
(C)
The Department of Defense.
(D)
The Department of Justice.
(E)
The Department of the Interior.
(F)
The Department of Labor.
(G)
The Department of Health and Human Services.
(H)
The Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(I)
The Department of Transportation.
(J)
The Department of Energy.
(K)
The Department of Education.
(L)
The Department of Veterans Affairs.
(M)
The Department of Homeland Security.
(N)
Any other Federal agency, designated by the President.
