1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicare Orthotics and Prosthetics Patient-Centered Care Act
.
2.
Increasing protections for Medicare beneficiaries receiving orthotic and prosthetic care
(a)
Prohibition on payment for items delivered by drop shipment
Section 1834(h)(1) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)(1)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(I)
Prohibition on payment for certain items furnished using a drop shipment
(i)
In general
No payment may be made under this subsection for an item described in clause (ii) furnished to an individual via a drop shipment on or after the first day of the first year beginning after the date of the enactment of this subparagraph.
(ii)
Items described
The items described in this clause are orthotics and prosthetics, not including supplies for such orthotics and prosthetics, that are identified by HCPCS codes for which payment is not made under section 1847.
(iii)
Drop shipment defined
In this subparagraph, the term
drop shipment
means, with respect to an item described in clause (ii), the direct shipment of such item to an individual who has not received training or education from a qualified practitioner (as defined in subparagraph (F)(iii)) on the fitting and adjustment, care, and use of such item.
.
(b)
Additional practitioners exempt from competitive acquisition
Section 1847(a)(7)(A)(i) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–3(a)(7)(A)(i)
) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
, physical therapist, occupational therapist, orthotist, prosthetist,
after
by a physician
; and
(2)
by striking
the physician’s
each place it appears and inserting
such physician’s
in each such place.
(c)
Ensuring beneficiary access to replacement custom-Fitted orthotics and custom-Fabricated orthotic devices
Section 1834(h)(1)(G) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)(1)(G)
) is amended—
(1)
in the heading, by inserting
,
custom-fitted orthotics, custom-fabricated orthotics
,
after
Replacement of prosthetic devices
; and
(2)
in clause (i), by inserting
replacement of custom-fitted orthotics, replacement of items of custom-fabricated orthotics described in subparagraph (F)(ii),
after
which are artificial limbs,
.
(d)
Regulations
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall promulgate final regulations to implement the amendments made by this section.
