1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Common Cents Act
.
2.
Elimination of production of one-cent coin
(a)
Elimination
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, except as provided in subsection (b) and notwithstanding any other provision of law (including section 5112(a)(6) of title 31, United States Code), the Secretary of the Treasury shall cease production of one-cent coins.
(b)
Exception
(1)
In General
The Secretary of the Treasury shall continue to produce one-cent coins as appropriate solely to meet the needs of numismatic collectors of the one-cent coin.
(2)
Sale
Any one-cent coin produced under this subsection shall be sold in accordance with section 5132(a) of title 31 United States Code, and any other provisions of law governing numismatic coins.
(3)
Net Receipts
The net receipts from the sale of any one-cent coin produced under this subsection shall equal or exceed the total cost of production, including variable costs and the appropriate share of fixed costs of production, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(c)
No effect on legal tender
All coins and currencies of the United States, regardless of when coined, printed, or issued, and including one-cent coins, shall continue to be legal tender for all debts, public and private, public charges, taxes, duties, and dues, in accordance with law.
3.
Cash transaction rounding
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person selling goods or services in a cash transaction, entering into any other transaction that results in a payment or transfer of cash between the parties to the transaction, or paying cash wages to an employee as compensation, shall round the payment in the following manner:
(1)
Rounding down
In any case in which the total transaction amount, including any taxes, ends with 1 cent, 2 cents, 6 cents, or 7 cents as the final digit, the amount of cents in the sum shall be rounded down to the nearest amount divisible by 5 for any person seeking to make payment with legal tender.
(2)
Rounding up
In any case in which the total transaction amount, including any taxes, ends with 3 cents, 4 cents, 8 cents, or 9 cents as the final digit, the amount of cents in the sum shall be rounded up to the nearest amount divisible by 5 for any person seeking to make payment with legal tender.
(b)
Exception
Subsection (a) shall not apply to—
(1)
transactions in which the total transaction amount, including any taxes, totals $0.01 or $0.02, where such transactions shall be rounded up to $.05 for any person seeking to make payment with legal tender; or
(2)
any transaction for which payment is made by any demand or negotiable instrument, electronic fund transfer, check, gift card, money order, credit card, or other like instrument or method.
(c)
Effective date
This section shall take effect 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
