1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Shall Not Be Infringed Act of 2026
.
2.
Gun free zone policy requirement pertaining to eligibility for Byrne-JAG funding
(a)
Gun free zone policy requirement
For each fiscal year after the expiration of the period specified in subsection (b) in which a State or unit of local government receives a grant under part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10151 et seq.
), the State or unit of local government shall conform its laws and policies to the following:
(1)
If the State or unit of local government has in effect any law providing for a gun free zone, then in the case of any person—
(A)
who is harmed by the use of a firearm by another,
(B)
such harm occurs in a gun free zone,
(C)
who is authorized to carry a firearm in that person’s State of residence, and
(D)
the person harmed could, if allowed to carry a firearm, have averted or mitigated such harm,
such person may recover, in a civil action against the State or unit of local government, compensatory damages and damages for pain and suffering.
(2)
The term
gun free zone
means any geographical area where the carrying of a firearm is prohibited under Federal, State, or local law by a member of the public.
(b)
Compliance and ineligibility
(1)
Compliance date
The period specified in this subsection is the period beginning on the first full fiscal year after the date of enactment of this Act.
(2)
Ineligibility for funds
For any fiscal year after the expiration of the period specified in paragraph (1), a State or unit of local government that fails to comply with subsection (a), shall be subject to a reduction of not more than 99 percent of the funds that would otherwise be allocated for that fiscal year to the State or unit of local government under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10151 et seq.
), whether characterized as the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Programs, the Local Government Law Enforcement Block Grants Program, the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, or otherwise.
(c)
Reallocation
Amounts not allocated under a program referred to in subsection (b)(2) to a State for failure to fully comply with subsection (a) shall be reallocated under that program to States that have not failed to comply with such subsection.
3.
Gun free zone policy requirement pertaining to eligibility for COPS funding
For each fiscal year after the expiration of the period specified in section 2(b) in which a State or unit of local government receives a grant under part Q of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10151 et seq.
), the State or unit of local government shall conform its laws and policies to the requirement in section 2(a). For any fiscal year after the expiration of the period specified in section 2(b)(1), a State or unit of local government that fails to comply with this section, shall be subject to a reduction of not more than 99 percent of the funds that would otherwise be allocated for that fiscal year to the State or unit of local government.
4.
Definitions
Terms used in this Act have the meanings given such terms in section 901 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968.
