1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Mental Health Crisis Referral Enhancement Act of 2025
.
2.
Department of Veterans Affairs pilot program on mental health referrals
(a)
Pilot program
Beginning not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a three-year pilot program under which Vet Centers and medical facilities of the Department provide veterans experiencing mental health crises with referrals to non-Department mental health care providers approved by the Secretary.
(b)
Locations
The Secretary shall select at least three geographic locations at which to carry out the pilot program required under subsection (a).
(c)
Requirements
In carrying out the pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
develop and maintain a referral system to connect veterans experiencing mental health crises with non-Department mental health care providers within one week;
(2)
develop criteria for the approval of non-Department mental health care providers for purposes of referrals under the program;
(3)
hire any additional employees required to facilitate referrals under the system; and
(4)
provide appropriate training to employees of Vet Centers and medical facilities of the Department on the referral system.
(d)
Reports
(1)
Annual reports
Not later than six months after the last day of each year during which the Secretary carries out the pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the implementation and outcomes of the pilot program. Each such report shall include the following for the year covered by the report:
(A)
The number of veterans referred to non-Department mental health care providers under the pilot program.
(B)
The average wait time for a veteran to receive mental health care after receiving a referral under the pilot program.
(C)
An evaluation of veteran satisfaction with the mental health care received through the referral system.
(2)
Final report
Not later than 180 days after the conclusion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a final report containing an evaluation of the effectiveness of the program and the recommendations of the Secretary with respect to expanding or modifying the referral system developed under the program.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the pilot program required under subsection (a) $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2027.
