1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bring the Space Shuttle Home Act
.
2.
Transfer of Discovery space shuttle to Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas
(a)
In general
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, under the direction of the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (referred to in this Act as the
Administrator
), the Discovery space shuttle shall be transferred from the Smithsonian Institution’s Steven F. Udvar Hazy Center of the National Air and Space Museum, near Washington, DC, to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas.
(b)
Plan
(1)
In general
The Administrator and the Smithsonian Institution shall jointly develop a plan to transfer the Discovery space shuttle under subsection (a), which shall include an estimated timeline and cost estimate for such transfer.
(2)
Submission to Congress
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator and the Smithsonian Institution shall submit to Congress the plan developed under paragraph (1).
(c)
Transfer of title to NASA
Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Discovery space shuttle is transferred under subsection (a), the Smithsonian Institution shall transfer the title to the shuttle to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
(d)
Public exhibition
On the transfer of the Discovery space shuttle under subsection (a)—
(1)
the shuttle shall be placed on public exhibition to advance science, technology, engineering, and mathematics learning at a location not more than 5 miles from the Johnson Space Center; and
(2)
the Johnson Space Center shall be responsible for oversight of the shuttle until the date on which the shuttle is transferred to a nonprofit entity under subsection (e).
(e)
Role of nonprofit entity
On any date after the transfer of title under subsection (c), the Administrator shall transfer the title to the Discovery space shuttle to a nonprofit entity designated by the Administrator, on the condition that the nonprofit entity shall maintain the shuttle on public exhibition to advance science, technology, engineering, and mathematics learning in a location not more than 5 miles from the Johnson Space Center.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section, which shall be in addition to any amounts authorized to be appropriated by any other Act, and may be requested by the President as supplemental requirements, if needed, in the appropriate fiscal years.
