1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Living Organ Volunteer Engagement Act
or the
LOVE Act
.
2.
Medicare demonstration program to provide payment for living kidney donor transplant facilitator training
Section 1881 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395rr
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(i)
Living kidney donor transplant facilitator training demonstration program
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall establish an 8-year demonstration program under which, for each year of the program, the Secretary shall pay to each eligible hospital participating in the program for such year an amount equal to the reasonable costs of the hospital in operating a living kidney donor transplant facilitator training program described in paragraph (3) for such year, as determined by the Secretary.
(2)
Eligible hospital
A hospital is eligible to participate in the demonstration program under this subsection if such hospital is a hospital in which kidney transplants are performed.
(3)
Living kidney donor transplant facilitator training program described
A living kidney donor transplant facilitator training program described in this paragraph is a program operated by a hospital that trains individuals to—
(A)
assist individuals who are entitled to benefits under parts A and B of this title and have been determined to have end-stage renal disease in identifying prospective living kidney donors; and
(B)
assist individuals entitled to benefits under parts A and B of this title pursuant to subsection (d) in successfully navigating the kidney donation process.
(4)
Waiver
The Secretary may waive such provisions of this title as may be necessary in order to implement the demonstration program.
(5)
Reports
(A)
Initial report
Not later than 6 years after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that includes, with respect to the 5-year period following such date of enactment, the following information:
(i)
Any increase in the number of living kidney donors, as compared to the 5-year period preceding such date of enactment.
(ii)
Any increase in the number of transplants conducted using kidneys donated by living donors, as compared to the 5-year period preceding such date of enactment.
(iii)
Outcome measures for individuals that received kidneys from living donors during such period.
(iv)
Any cost savings to the Medicare program attributable to the increase in transplant services and the decline in dialysis services, as compared to the 5-year period preceding such date of enactment.
(v)
Qualitative information with respect to transplants conducted using kidneys donated by living donors during such period, as determined based on interviews of facilitators, volunteers at eligible hospitals participating in the demonstration program established under
paragraph (1)
, living kidney donors, and kidney transplant recipients.
(B)
Subsequent reports
Not later than 1 year after the initial report is submitted under
subparagraph (A)
, and annually thereafter for the next 2 years, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that includes updates to the information described in clauses (i) through (v) of such subparagraph.
(C)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(I)
the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(II)
the Committee on Finance of the Senate.
(ii)
Facilitator
The term
facilitator
means an individual who has received training under a living kidney donor transplant facilitator training program described in paragraph (3).
.
