1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Furthering American Security by Tempering Environmental Regulations Act
or the
FASTER Act
.
2.
Biennial survey of tactical infrastructure along the southern border
(a)
Biennial surveys
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and biennially thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall conduct a survey of existing tactical infrastructure along the southern border. Each such survey shall include the following:
(A)
A measurement of the number of miles of the southern border that are without tactical infrastructure.
(B)
A description of any deficiencies in the structure of existing tactical infrastructure along the southern border.
(C)
A description of any deficiencies in technology along the southern border.
(2)
Reports
(A)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the conclusion of each survey under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report containing the findings and results of such survey.
(B)
Form
Each report under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified format but may include a classified annex if the Secretary of Homeland Security determines such is appropriate.
(b)
Implementation of certain authority
If the Secretary of Homeland Security determines, pursuant to a survey under subsection (a), that there is a deficiency described paragraph (1) of such subsection, the Secretary shall take such actions as may be necessary, including exercising the authority provided pursuant to paragraph (1) of section 102(c) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (
8 U.S.C. 1103
note), to waive all legal requirements to correct in an expedited manner such a deficiency.
(c)
Definition
In this section, the term
deficiency
, when used with respect to tactical infrastructure or technology, means that any such tactical infrastructure or technology, as the case may be—
(1)
is not operational; or
(2)
cannot serve the intended function or purpose as a result of—
(A)
damage;
(B)
deterioration; or
(C)
unmet maintenance or repair.
