1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improve Employer-Directed Skills Act
.
2.
Employer-directed skills development
(a)
Interview exception
Section 134(c)(3)(A) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3174(c)(3)(A)
) is amended—
(1)
in clause (i), by striking
as provided in clause (ii)
and inserting
as provided in clause (ii) or (iii)
;
(2)
by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); and
(3)
by inserting after clause (ii) the following:
(iii)
Employer referral
A one-stop operator or one-stop partner shall not be required to conduct an interview, evaluation, or assessment of an individual under clause (i) if such individual—
(I)
is referred by an employer to receive on-the-job training or employer-directed skills development in connection with that employer; and
(II)
has been certified by the employer as being an individual who is in need of training services to obtain unsubsidized employment with such employer and who has the skills and qualifications to successfully participate in the selected program of training services.
.
(b)
Employer-Directed skills development agreement
Section 134(c)(3) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3174(c)(3)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(I)
Employer-directed skills development
An employer may receive a contract from a local board to provide employer-directed skills development to a participant or group of participants if the employer submits to the local board an agreement that establishes—
(i)
the provider of the skills development program, which may be the employer;
(ii)
the length of the skills development program;
(iii)
the recognized postsecondary credentials that will be awarded to, or the occupational skills that will be gained by, program participants;
(iv)
the cost of the skills development program;
(v)
the estimated earnings of program participants upon successful completion of the program;
(vi)
the amount of such cost that will be paid by the employer, which shall not be less than the amount specified in subparagraph (C) of section 3(19); and
(vii)
a commitment by the employer to employ the participating individual or individuals upon successful completion of the program.
.
(c)
Global technical amendment
Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3111 et seq.
) is amended by striking
customized training
each place it appears and inserting
employer-directed skills development
.
