1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Haiti Economic Lift Program Extension Act of 2025
.
2.
Extension of special rules for Haiti under Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act
Section 213A of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (
19 U.S.C. 2703a
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in paragraph (1)—
(i)
by amending subparagraph (B)(v)(I) to read as follows:
(I)
Applicable percentage
The term
applicable percentage
means 60 percent or more on and after December 20, 2017.
; and
(ii)
by amending subparagraph (C) to read as follows:
(C)
Quantitative limitations
The preferential treatment described in subparagraph (A) shall be extended, during each period after the initial applicable 1-year period, to not more than 1.25 percent of the aggregate square meter equivalents of all apparel articles imported into the United States in the most recent 12-month period for which data are available.
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by striking
in each of the 16 succeeding 1-year periods
each place it appears and inserting
in any of the succeeding 1-year periods
; and
(2)
by amending subsection (h) to read as follows:
(h)
Termination
The duty-free treatment provided under this section shall remain in effect until September 30, 2035.
.
3.
Restoration of eligibility of certain articles for preferential treatment
(a)
In general
The President shall proclaim such modifications to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States as may be necessary to restore the eligibility of articles described in subsection (b) for preferential treatment under section 213A of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (
19 U.S.C. 2703a
).
(b)
Articles described
An article described in this subsection is an article that—
(1)
was eligible for preferential treatment under section 213A of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (
19 U.S.C. 2703a
) on December 20, 2006; and
(2)
became ineligible for such treatment after that date and before the date of the enactment of this Act as a result of revisions to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule.
(c)
Effective date of proclamation
A proclamation under subsection (a) shall take effect not earlier than 2 business days after the President submits to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives a report on the proclamation and the reasons for the modifications to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule under the proclamation.
