1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Charlie Kirk Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Charles
Charlie
James Kirk, born October 14, 1993, was an American hero whose life was tragically cut short by a political assassin on September 10, 2025, at Utah Valley University.
(2)
Charlie Kirk was a devout follower of the Lord Jesus Christ and courageously proclaimed the truth of the Gospel, fighting the good fight and keeping the faith until death.
(3)
A dedicated husband to his beloved wife, Erika Kirk, and a loving father to his daughter and son, through the example of his well-lived life, Charlie Kirk inspired a generation of people in the United States to embrace the traditional values of family, faith, and freedom.
(4)
Charlie Kirk had an undeniable love for his country and inspired an entire generation of young people to boldly protect and defend the principles of the founding of the United States.
(5)
In 2012, at just 18 years of age, he founded Turning Point USA, an organization with the mission to
identify, educate, train, and organize students to promote the principles of fiscal responsibility, free markets, and limited government
, which grew to be the largest conservative youth organization in the United States, with over 800 chapters on college campuses and over 1,000 high school chapters nationwide, and through which Charlie Kirk—
(A)
impacted the lives of countless people throughout the United States and the world, especially youth, encouraging them in their beliefs and emboldening them to stand up for truth;
(B)
advocated for the
development of knowledge, skills, values, and motivation
in order to
restore traditional American values like patriotism, respect for life, liberty, family, and fiscal responsibility
; and
(C)
hosted annual summits such as Turning Point USA’s Student Action Summit, the Young Women’s Leadership Summit, and AmericaFest, which have featured many prominent leaders and political figures, such as United States President Donald J. Trump.
(6)
Charlie Kirk hosted The Charlie Kirk Show, a top-ranking daily radio and podcast show.
(7)
Charlie Kirk regularly and respectfully—
(A)
participated in civil discourse surrounding the political landscape of the United States and reinspired belief in the principles of the country’s founding; and
(B)
engaged with those who opposed him and his beliefs and did so with earnestness and desire to create awareness for truth and the ability to find unity.
(8)
Charlie Kirk was the personification of the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, never compromising the truth while also treating those with whom he disagreed with dignity and respect.
3.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Award authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the award, on behalf of Congress, of 2 gold medals of appropriate design to Charles
Charlie
Kirk, in recognition of his life, service, and dedication to the people of the United States, of which—
(1)
1 shall be presented to his family; and
(2)
1 shall be given to the Smithsonian Institution for display and preservation.
(b)
Public display
Following the award of the gold medal under subsection (a)(2), the gold medal shall be displayed as appropriate, ensuring that the legacy and contributions of Charles
Charlie
Kirk are preserved for the people of the United States.
4.
Design and striking
(a)
In general
For purposes of the award described in section 3, the Secretary of the Treasury (in this Act referred to as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
(b)
Authority To strike duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to subsection (a), at a price sufficient to cover the costs thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
Medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck under this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
