1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Foreign-Trade Zone Export Enhancement Act of 2025
.
2.
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to ensure that foreign-trade zones in the United States continue—
(1)
to operate in support of United States competitiveness in manufacturing and distribution; and
(2)
to create and preserve jobs in the United States.
3.
Rules related to duties imposed on foreign-trade zone merchandise
(a)
Amendments to Foreign Trade Zones Act
Section 3 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (commonly known as the
Foreign Trade Zones Act
) (
19 U.S.C. 81c
), is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(f)
Export from a foreign-Trade zone of certain merchandise manufactured or changed
in condition
Notwithstanding the seventh proviso of subsection (a)—
(1)
each article subject to the procedures described in such proviso and classifiable under the heading 9801.00.95 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States shall enter free of duty in accordance with such heading; and
(2)
any article consisting of components subject to such procedures and classifiable under such heading shall enter free of duty with respect to such components.
.
(b)
Duty-Free treatment for certain articles
Subchapter I of chapter 98 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (hereinafter the
HTS
) is amended by inserting in numerical sequence the following new subheading:
9801.00.95
Merchandise that is subject to duty deferral restrictions of
the free trade agreement between the United States, Mexico, and Canada (19
U.S.C. 4501, et seq.; commonly known as the
USMCA
) (or any
successor agreement) that is admitted into a United States foreign-trade zone,
manufactured, or changed in condition therein, and subsequently withdrawn for
direct exportation to the territory of a Party to that agreement.
Free
.
4.
Implementation and enforcement
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall issue such regulations as are necessary to implement section 3.
