1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting America’s Roads Act
.
2.
Commercial driver’s license requirements
(a)
In general
Section 31308 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A) by striking
and
at the end; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
present valid documentation proving citizenship status, lawful permanent resident status, or a valid work authorization; and
(D)
present valid documentation of domicile in the State in which the commercial driver’s license is issued;
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3) by striking
and
at the end;
(3)
in paragraph (4)(E) by striking the period and inserting a semicolon; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
(5)
prohibit a State from issuing a commercial driver’s license to an individual who is not domiciled in such State;
(6)
require States to use the SAVE system for any non-citizen applicant for a commercial driver’s license, maintain documents related to such applicant for not less than 2 years, and deny any applicant if the SAVE system does not confirm lawful presence of such applicant;
(7)
with respect to any non-citizen applicant for a commercial driver’s license or commercial learner’s permit, the license or learner’s permit shall expire on the earlier of—
(A)
the applicant’s I–94 date; or
(B)
1 year after issuance of such license or permit;
(8)
require any upgrade, downgrade, renewal, or transfer of a commercial driver’s license or commercial learner’s permit for a non-citizen to be completed in person; and
(9)
require States to downgrade or revoke any commercial driver’s license or learner’s permit for any non-citizen if eligibility for such license or permit lapses.
.
(b)
Penalties
The Secretary of Transportation shall issue such regulations as are necessary to establish penalties for States that the Secretary finds do not comply with the requirements of section 31308(9) of title 49, United States Code.
3.
Termination of reciprocity for commercial driver’s licenses
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall take such actions as are necessary to terminate any existing reciprocity agreements that recognize foreign commercial driver’s licenses in the United States or permit holders of foreign commercial driver’s licenses to operate a commercial motor vehicle in the United States, unless expressly authorized by statute.
4.
Agency cooperation
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any agency operating under section 287(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1357(g)
) may use the authority of such Agency to identify and address foreign nationals unlawfully operating commercial motor vehicles in the United States and report to the Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.
5.
Effective date
This Act shall take effect on the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
