1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
SNAP Fraud Reporting Act of 2026
.
2.
Required State submission of SNAP fraud data
(a)
Initial submission of data
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, each State shall submit to the Secretary of Agriculture data on fraud that occurred in the supplemental nutrition assistance program for the then most recently concluded 5 fiscal years available. Such data shall include the following:
(1)
The number of supplemental nutrition assistance program fraud cases open for investigation.
(2)
The total number of fraud cases identified, including substantiated fraud committed by criminals such as card skimming and card cloning, and the total dollar amount of fraud cases identified.
(3)
The number and type of enforcement actions taken against supplemental nutrition assistance program fraud.
(4)
The amount of the recoveries in such cases.
(5)
For each fiscal year that begins after the after the enactment of this Act, all data on the number of people disqualified for fraud which were found to be deceased people or using a deceased person's identity who received supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits during each fiscal year and the dollar amount of benefits issued.
(6)
For each fiscal year that begins after the after the enactment of this Act, all data on the number of people disqualified for fraud which were found to have submitted no social security number or used falsified, recycled, stolen, or purchased social security numbers during each fiscal year and the dollar amount of such benefits.
(b)
Subsequent submission of data
Not later than 60 days after October 1, 2028, and not later than 60 days after each October 1 thereafter, each State shall submit to the Secretary of Agriculture data of the kind described in subsection (a) on fraud that occurred in the supplemental nutrition assistance program for the then most recently concluded fiscal year.
(c)
Penalty
If a State does not provide the requested data required by this section not later than the applicable date, the Secretary shall withhold supplemental nutrition assistance program administrative funds from such State until such data are received from such State.
3.
Reports to the Congress
(a)
Initial report
Not later than 180 days after receiving all of the data required to be submitted under section 2(a) by States, the Secretary shall—
(1)
submit to the Congress a report that contains the findings of the Secretary, and
(2)
shall publish such report online.
(b)
Subsequent reports
Not later than 180 days after October 1, 2028, and not later than 180 days after each October 1 thereafter, after receiving all of the data required to be submitted under section 2(b) by States for the fiscal year involved, Secretary shall—
(1)
submit a report of the kind described in subsection (a) based on such data for the most recently concluded fiscal year, and
(2)
publish such report online.
