1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Save Our Shipyards Act of 2025
or the
SOS Act of 2025
.
2.
Establishment
There is established a commission to be known as the
National Commission on the Maritime Industrial Base
or the
SOS Commission
(in this Act referred to as the
Commission
).
3.
Functions
(a)
Investigation and Study
The Commission shall complete an investigation and study the condition of the United States maritime industry and any impediments to a strong and competitive United States maritime industry, with a particular focus on the needs of the United States military, including shipyards, shipbuilding and repairs, harbors, and skilled workforce.
(b)
Policy recommendations
Based on the results of the investigation and study under subsection (a), the Commission shall recommend to the President and Congress policies which should be adopted to—
(1)
achieve the national goal of a strong United States maritime industry which will help to provide for the national defense;
(2)
revitalize the United States naval fleet and maintain that fleet at a level sufficient to contribute to the national defense;
(3)
foster a viable United States shipbuilding industry to provide an industrial base for meeting present and future military and civilian shipbuilding needs; and
(4)
reduce the loss of seafaring and shipbuilding jobs for United States citizens so as to ensure the existence of a reliable maritime labor force.
4.
Specific matters to be addressed
In investigating and studying under section 3, the Commission shall investigate and study the following:
(1)
Current condition of united states maritime industry
The current condition of the United States maritime industry, including how the condition of the industry is likely to change over the next 10 years following the date of enactment of this Act.
(2)
National defense
The adequacy of the United States maritime industry to ensure the national defense.
(3)
Maritime labor
The adequacy of skilled mariners and shipyard workers, and the level of training of United States mariners at training facilities in the United States.
(4)
Impediments to strong and competitive maritime industry
Whether the Federal Government should take any legislative or administrative actions related to the United States maritime industry to strengthen our national security, including—
(A)
the tax and regulatory burden on the US maritime industry;
(B)
incentives to encourage investment in United States shipyards and shipbuilding;
(C)
incentives for personnel to enter the skilled labor workforce for shipbuilding;
(D)
the effect of subsidies and other financial assistance by foreign governments to their vessel operators and shipbuilders;
(E)
the effects of great power competition and a potential war on United States naval and maritime forces; and
(F)
the prioritization of national security related matters in regulatory review and approval processes.
5.
Membership; Administrative matters
(a)
Appointment
The Commission shall be composed of 15 voting commissioners and 7 non-voting members appointed in the following manner:
(1)
5 voting commissioners appointed by the President.
(2)
7 non-voting members appointed by the President who shall be chosen from the list described in subsection (c).
(3)
3 voting commissioners appointed by the majority leader of the Senate.
(4)
3 voting commissioners appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(5)
2 voting commissioners appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.
(6)
2 voting commissioners appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Qualifications for voting commissioners
Voting commissioners appointed under subsection (a) shall be appointed from among United States citizens who are experts in commercial shipping, international trade, maritime industry policy and regulations, and related disciplines and who can represent United States-flagged vessel operators (including domestic passenger vessel operators), seafaring and shipbuilding labor, shipbuilders, shippers, and the financial community with expertise in maritime matters.
(c)
Qualifications of non-Voting members
One non-voting member appointed under subsection (a) shall be appointed from each of the following:
(1)
The Navy.
(2)
The Coast Guard.
(3)
The United States Maritime Service.
(4)
The Marine Corps.
(5)
The United States Naval War College.
(6)
The Maritime Administration.
(7)
The United States Merchant Maritime Academy.
(d)
Terms of office
Members and commissioners shall be appointed for the duration of the Commission.
(e)
Initial meeting
Not later than 90 days after two-thirds of the voting commissioners have been appointed under this section, the Commission shall be considered active and the Commission shall hold a first meeting.
(f)
Vacancies
A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
(g)
Travel expenses
Members and commissioners shall serve without pay but shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with subchapter I of
chapter 57
of title 5, United States Code.
(h)
Chair
The President, in consultation with the majority leader of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, shall designate the Chair of the Commission from among its voting members.
(i)
Quorum
For the purposes of conducting meetings of the Commission, a quorum of the Commission shall be considered the presence of 10 voting commissioners.
(j)
Commission panels
The Chair shall establish such panels consisting of voting commissioners as the Chair determines appropriate to carry out the functions of the Commission.
(k)
Staff
The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of such personnel as the Commission determines appropriate.
(l)
Staff of Federal agencies
Upon request of the Commission, the head of any department or agency of the United States may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that department or agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this title.
(m)
Administrative support services
Upon request of the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support services necessary for the Commission to carry out its duties under this title.
(n)
Obtaining official data
The Commission may secure directly from any department or agency of the United States information (other than information required by any statute of the United States to be kept confidential by such department or agency) necessary for the Commission to carry out its duties under this title. Upon request of the Commission, the head of that department or agency shall furnish such nonconfidential information to the Commission.
(o)
Security clearances for commissioners, members, and staff
The appropriate Federal departments or agencies shall cooperate with the Commission in expeditiously providing to commissioners, members, and staff appropriate security clearances to the extent possible pursuant to existing procedures and requirements, except that no person may be provided with access to classified information under this Act without the appropriate security clearances.
6.
Report
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Commission holds the first meeting under section 5, the Commission shall transmit to the President and Congress a report on the activities of the Commission, including recommendations made by the Commission under section 3(b) which shall be considered by the relevant congressional committees for possible legislative action.
(b)
Classification
The report under subsection (a) shall be transmitted in an unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
7.
Termination
The Commission shall terminate on the date that is 30 days after the transmittal of the report under section 6.
