1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Eliminate DEI in Colleges Act
.
2.
Prohibition on Federal funding for institutions of higher education that carry out diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives
Part B of title I of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1011 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
124.
Prohibition on diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives
(a)
Restriction on eligibility
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no institution of higher education shall be eligible to receive funds or any other form of financial assistance under any Federal program, including participation in any federally funded or guaranteed student loan program, unless the institution certifies to the Secretary that the institution—
(1)
does not and will not carry out any program, project, initiative, or other activity the primary purpose of which is to advocate, promote, or otherwise support diversity, equity, and inclusion; and
(2)
does not and will not maintain any office or other entity within the institution to advocate, promote, or otherwise support diversity, equity, and inclusion.
(b)
Information availability
Each institution of higher education that provides the certification required by subsection (a) shall, upon request, make available to the Secretary any information needed by the Secretary to verify the truth and accuracy of the certification.
(c)
Regulations
The Secretary shall publish regulations to implement and enforce the provisions of this section.
(d)
Appeals
Upon determination by the Secretary to terminate financial assistance to any institution of higher education under this section, the institution may file an appeal with an administrative law judge before the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date such institution is notified of the decision to terminate financial assistance under this section. Such judge shall hold a hearing with respect to such termination of assistance before the expiration of the 45-day period beginning on the date that such appeal is filed. Such judge may extend such 45-day period upon a motion by the institution concerned. The decision of the judge with respect to such termination shall be considered to be a final agency action.
(e)
Definition
In this section, the term
diversity, equity, and inclusion
means the concept according to which individuals are—
(1)
classified on basis of race, color, sex, national origin, gender identity, or sexual orientation; and
(2)
afforded differential or preferential treatment basis of such classification.
.
