1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Clarity for Opioid-Use Reduction and Expenditures Act
or the
CURE Act
.
2.
Improving administration, oversight, and impact of opioid use disorder grants
(a)
Accountability and oversight
Subsection (c) of section 1003 of the 21st Century Cures Act (
42 U.S.C. 290ee–3a
) is amended to read as follows:
(c)
Accountability and oversight
(1)
Standardized system for data collection
The Secretary shall develop and implement a standardized system for collecting data from States receiving grants under subsection (b).
(2)
Submission of data
A State receiving a grant under subsection (b) shall submit to the Secretary, through the standardized system referred to in paragraph (1), on a quarterly basis, a description of—
(A)
the purposes for which the grant funds received by the State under such subsection for the preceding fiscal year were expended and a description of the activities of the State under the grant;
(B)
the ultimate recipients of amounts provided to the State, including the name, location, and taxpayer identification number of any grant subrecipients;
(C)
the number of individuals served through the grant; and
(D)
such other information as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(3)
Use of other Federal grant-tracking systems
The Secretary shall, in collecting data through the standardized system referred to in paragraph (1), to the extent feasible, make use of other Federal grant-tracking systems to avoid duplication of efforts.
.
(b)
Report to Congress
Section 1003(f) of the 21st Century Cures Act (42 U.S.C. 290ee–3a(f)) is amended—
(1)
by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
(2)
the activities of the recipients and subrecipients of the grants; and
; and
(2)
by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
(3)
each entity that receives a grant or is a subrecipient of a grant under this section, including the funding level provided to such recipient or subrecipient.
.
(c)
Applicability
The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall apply beginning 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
