1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting a Safe Internet for Minors Act
.
2.
Online safety for minors
(a)
Amendment
Subtitle A of the Protecting Children in the 21st Century Act (
15 U.S.C. 6551 et seq.
) is amended by striking sections 211 through 214 and 216 and inserting the following:
211.
Public awareness and educational campaign
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Commission, in partnership with the heads of other relevant agencies, State and local governments, nonprofit organizations, schools, industry, law enforcement, medical professionals, and other appropriate entities, shall carry out a program throughout the United States to promote the safe use of the internet by minors, that includes the following:
(1)
The identification, promotion, and encouragement of best practices for educators, online platforms, minors, and parents and guardians to protect minors online.
(2)
The establishment and implementation of an outreach and education campaign throughout the United States that promotes online safety for minors.
(3)
The facilitation of access to, and the exchange of, information regarding online safety for minors to promote up-to-date knowledge regarding harms and risks negatively impacting or benefits positively impacting minors online.
(4)
The facilitation of access to publicly accessible online safety education and public awareness efforts by other relevant agencies, State and local governments, nonprofit organizations, schools, industry, and other appropriate entities.
212.
Annual report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, and annually thereafter for 10 years, the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that describes the activities carried out under section 211.
213.
Definitions
In this subtitle:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Trade Commission.
(3)
Minor
The term
minor
means an individual under the age of 17.
(4)
Nonprofit organization
The term
nonprofit organization
means an organization that is described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
(5)
Online safety
The term
online safety
includes issues regarding the use of the internet in a manner that promotes safe online activity for minors through the following:
(A)
Protecting minors from cybercrimes, access to narcotics, tobacco products, gambling, alcohol, and other adult content.
(B)
Preventing compulsive behavior online and other adverse impacts on the physical and mental health of minors.
(C)
Facilitating the effective use of safeguards, parental controls, and other tools to empower parents, guardians, and minors to protect minors online.
(6)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendments
The table of contents for subtitle A of the Protecting Children in the 21st Century Act (
15 U.S.C. 6551 et seq.
) is amended—
(1)
by striking the items related to sections 211 through 214 and 216; and
(2)
inserting before section 215 the following:
Sec. 211. Public awareness and educational campaign.
Sec. 212. Annual report.
Sec. 213. Definitions.
.
