1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Saving Vet Halls Act of 2025
.
2.
Department of Veterans Affairs grants for veterans service organization facility and technology improvements
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may make grants to eligible veterans service organizations for the purpose of facility and technology improvements.
(b)
Use of funds
A veterans service organization that receives a grant under this section shall use the grant for—
(1)
repairing or rehabilitating a facility of the veterans service organization; or
(2)
acquiring or upgrading technology for such a facility.
(c)
Eligibility
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a veterans service organization shall submit to the Secretary an application that contains—
(1)
a plan for the repair, rehabilitation, or technology upgrading and acquisition activities the veterans service organization proposes to carry out using the grant; and
(2)
such other information and assurances as the Secretary may require.
(d)
Selection of recipients
In selecting recipients of grant under this section, the Secretary shall take into consideration—
(1)
the extent of the need of a veterans service organization for a grant;
(2)
the quality of the plan the organization submitted under subsection (c)(1);
(3)
the capacity or potential capacity of the organization to successfully carry out the plan; and
(4)
such other factors as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(e)
Limitations
(1)
Amount of grant
The amount of a grant under this section made to any veterans service organization for any fiscal year may not exceed the greater of the following amounts:
(A)
The amount of the total cost of carrying out the plan of the organization submitted under subsection (c)(1).
(B)
$75,000.
(2)
Frequency
A veterans service organization that receives a grant under this section for a fiscal year shall be ineligible for any grant under this section for any of the succeeding five fiscal years.
(3)
Use
A grant under this section may not be used for the construction or acquisition of a new facility.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs $10,000,000 to carry out this section. Amounts appropriated pursuant to such authorization of appropriation shall remain available until expended without fiscal year limitation.
(g)
Veterans service organization
In this section, the term
veterans service organization
—
(1)
means an organization that is chartered under part B of subtitle II of title 36, United States Code; and
(2)
includes any local or area chapter, post, or other unit of such an organization.
