1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Giving Alien Migrants Back through Lawful Excise Redistribution Act
or the
GAMBLER Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
Bold and decisive action must be undertaken to make America safe again, by protecting communities from the harms of illegal migration.
(2)
The cost of making America safe again—apprehending, detaining, and deporting illegal aliens—should not fall on average American citizens.
(3)
The Department of Justice reports the average cost to house an illegal alien is more than $150 per day, with an average detention time of 55 days prior to deportation.
(4)
The record $4.25 billion appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for alien detention and removal operations in fiscal year 2024 was not sufficient to keep up with the surge of aliens.
(5)
Congressional Budget Office estimates show that outlays for benefits provided to aliens and their children will total $177 billion by fiscal year 2034 if we do not change course.
(6)
Illegal migration has cost American citizens enough already; we must seek innovative ways to fund the process of apprehension, detention, and deportation without raising taxes.
3.
Border Enforcement Trust Fund
(a)
In general
Subchapter A of
chapter 98
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
9512.
Border Enforcement Trust Fund
(a)
Creation of trust fund
There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the
Border Enforcement Trust Fund
, consisting of such amounts as may be appropriated or credited to such fund as provided in this section or section 9602(b).
(b)
Transfers to trust fund
There are hereby appropriated to the Border Enforcement Trust Fund amounts equivalent to the taxes received in the Treasury under chapter 35 after the date of the enactment of this section.
(c)
Expenditures
Amounts in the Border Enforcement Trust Fund shall only be available, to extent provided in appropriation Acts, to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement under the ‘‘U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement—operations and support’’ account for necessary expenses for enforcement, detention, and removal operations.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for subchapter A of chapter 98 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
Sec. 9512. Border Enforcement Trust Fund.
.
