1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Territorial De Minimis Exemption Act
.
2.
Exemption of territories from elimination of de minimis treatment
(a)
Privilege of de minimis treatment
On and after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall admit into the customs territory of the United States articles originating from any covered territory free of duty and of any tax imposed on or by reason of importation, but the aggregate fair retail value in the country of shipment of articles imported by one person on one day and exempted from the payment of duty shall not exceed $800.
(b)
Covered territory defined
For purposes of the privilege under subsection (a), the term
covered territory
means the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
(c)
Evasion prohibited
The privilege under subsection (a) shall not be granted in any case in which merchandise covered by a single order or contract is forwarded in separate lots to secure the benefit of such privilege.
(d)
Regulations
The Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to ensure that the privilege of de minimis treatment provided in accordance with subsection (a) is implemented in the same manner and to the same extent as such privilege was extended to articles imported into the customs territory of the United States on or before January 1, 2025.
3.
Inclusion of the Northern Mariana Islands in scope of bona fide gifts exemption
Section 321(a)(2)(A) of the Tariff Act of 1930 is amended by inserting
Northern Mariana Islands,
after
Guam,
.
4.
Consultation required with respect to widely applicable tariff policy changes
In the course of making any determinations relating to changes in United States trade policy, especially such changes that will have global or otherwise widely applicable effect, the President shall seek to ensure to the maximum extent practicable, including in consultation as appropriate with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce, that such changes are not implemented in a manner that adversely affects commerce in United States territories, including by treating articles originating from such territories as imports from foreign countries.
