1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Abraham Accords Defense Against Terror Act
.
2.
Authority to enhance security assistance with countries that are engaged in regional security cooperation efforts in the Middle East and North Africa
(a)
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States to work with allies and partners to safeguard freedom of navigation, protect critical infrastructure, uphold basic principles of international law, and protect United States citizens from threats posed by Iran and Iran-aligned entities in the Middle East and North Africa.
(b)
Authority
The Secretary of State shall—
(1)
identify countries that—
(A)
have normalized diplomatic relations with the State of Israel; and
(B)
are engaged in regional security cooperation efforts in the Middle East and North Africa to combat threats posed by Iran and Iran-aligned entities; and
(2)
in order to meet the policy described in subsection (a), provide approval for the sale or lease, a license or other approval for the export, or the transfer of defense articles or defense services to countries identified by the Secretary under paragraph (1) in accordance with the expedited approval provisions of subsection (c).
(c)
Expedited approval provisions
In the case of a sale or lease of defense articles or defense services under section 3, 21, or 36 of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2753
, 2761, or 2776) to a country identified by the Secretary of State under subsection (b)(1), a license or other approval under section 38 of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 2778
) for the export of defense articles or defense services to such a country (or of a commercial agreement that involves the manufacture in such a country of any item of significant combat equipment on the United States Munitions List in accordance with section 36(d) of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 2776(d)
)), or a transfer of excess defense articles under section 516(c)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2321j(c)(2)
) to such a country, the President shall—
(1)
notwithstanding the time limitations described in any of such sections, submit to Congress a certification described in such sections, at least 15 calendar days before sale, lease, license or other approval, or transfer of the defense articles or defense services is approved; and
(2)
include in the certification—
(A)
information on why the provision of such defense articles or services is related to or in furtherance of the policy described in subsection (a); and
(B)
a summary of steps taken by the United States Government to ensure that any sensitive United States technology, information, or capabilities that may be provided to such a country by reason of the provision of such defense articles or services are not acquired by—
(i)
the People’s Republic of China or any entity owned or controlled by the People’s Republic of China; or
(ii)
the Russian Federation or any entity owned or controlled by the Russian Federation.
(d)
Strategy
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 60 days thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees, in writing, a strategy on the implementation of this section.
(2)
Matters to be included
The strategy required by this subsection shall include the following:
(A)
An overview of the security threats from Iran and Iran-aligned entities to both the United States and the countries identified by the Secretary of State under subsection (b)(1).
(B)
A description and assessment of the metrics and evaluation procedures used for implementing the policy described in subsection (a), including recommendations to improve multilateral cooperation between the United States and such countries and among such countries.
(C)
A description of the challenges to achieving full interoperability between the United States and such countries and the impact on progress to address the policy described in subsection (a), including efforts to address shared threats posed by Iran and Iran-aligned entities.
(D)
A description of measures to provide such countries interim capabilities until the cases described in clauses (i) and (ii) are delivered.
(E)
A description and assessment of—
(i)
the status of all pending sales of defense articles or defense services over $25,000,000, including Letters of Request and where applicable Letters of Offer and Acceptance, beginning 5 years prior to the date of the enactment of this Act, to such countries pursuant to the provisions of law specified in subsection (c);
(ii)
a description of the delivery time-frames for all pending sales of defense articles or defense services over $25,000,000 to such countries pursuant to the provisions of law specified in subsection (c) and any measures that could be taken to expedite their delivery; and
(iii)
recommendations to improve the process for authorizing the transfer of defense articles and services authorized under sections 36 and 38 of the Arms Export Control Act to such countries, including as it relates to delivery timeline.
(3)
Form
The report required by this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.
(4)
Definitions
In this subsection—
(A)
the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(i)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(ii)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(B)
the term
Iran-aligned entity
—
(i)
includes an entity that—
(I)
is controlled or significantly influenced by the Government of Iran; and
(II)
knowingly receives material or financial support from the Government of Iran; and
(ii)
includes—
(I)
Hezbollah;
(II)
the Houthis; or
(III)
any other proxy group that furthers Iran’s national security objectives.
3.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as adversely affecting Israel’s qualitative military edge, as defined in section 36(h)(3) of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2776
).
