116 HRES 107 IH: SFC Sean Cooley and SPC Christopher Horton Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program Act
U.S. House of Representatives
2019-02-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
116th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 107
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 6, 2019
Mr. Kelly of Mississippi
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Establishing the Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program for the placement in offices of Members of the House of Representatives of children, spouses, and siblings of members of the Armed Forces who are hostile casualties or who have died from a training-related injury.
1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
SFC Sean Cooley and SPC Christopher Horton Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program Act
.
2.
Congressional Gold Star Fellowship Program
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the House of Representatives the Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program (hereafter in this resolution referred to as the
Program
) under which, under the direction of the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, an eligible individual may serve a 12-month fellowship in the office of a Member of the House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress).
(b)
Exclusion of appointees for purposes of limit on number of employees in Member offices
Any individual serving a fellowship under the Program in the office of a Member shall not be included in the determination of the number of employees employed by the Member under section 104(a) of the House of Representatives Administrative Reform Technical Corrections Act (
2 U.S.C. 5321(a)
).
(c)
Placement in Member offices in District of Columbia or congressional district of Member
An individual may serve a fellowship under the Program at the Member’s office in the District of Columbia or the Member’s office in the congressional district the Member represents.
(d)
Eligibility
(1)
In general
An individual is eligible to serve a fellowship under the Program if the individual is the child (including a stepchild), spouse, or sibling of a member of the Armed Forces who is a hostile casualty or died from a training-related injury.
(2)
Definitions
In this subsection, the terms
hostile casualty
and
training-related injury
have the meanings given those terms in section 2402(b) of title 38, United States Code.
(e)
Regulations
The Program shall be carried out in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Committee on House Administration.
