116 HRES 886 IH: Condemning Charles ГўВҖВңChuckГўВҖВқ Schumer, Senator of New York.
U.S. House of Representatives
2020-03-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
116th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 886
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 5, 2020
Mr. Biggs
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Condemning Charles
Chuck
Schumer, Senator of New York.
Whereas Senator Schumer participated in a rally outside of the Supreme Court of the United States on March 4, 2020, at which he directed a threat at Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh;
Whereas Senator Schumer specifically stated,
I want to tell you, Gorsuch. I want to tell you, Kavanaugh. You have released the whirlwind, and you will pay the price. You wonГўВҖВҷt know what hit you if you go forward with these awful decisions.
;
Whereas elected officials, including Majority Whip Steve Scalise and Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, have already been victims of physical violence rooted in political disagreement;
Whereas Chief Justice John Roberts issued a statement shortly after these comments took place, saying,
Justices know that criticism comes with the territory, but threatening statements of this sort from the highest levels of government are not only inappropriate, they are dangerous.
;
Whereas Senator SchumerГўВҖВҷs comments to not contribute anything positive to the public dialogue;
Whereas Senator Schumer is the leader of his conference in the Senate and is held to a higher standard for his colleagues and the American people to follow;
Whereas Senator SchumerГўВҖВҷs comments are in direct conflict with the constitutional process by which cases are deliberated and verdicts are issued by the Supreme Court; and
Whereas Senator Schumer is setting the foundation for public and political unrest should the case be decided contrary to his partyГўВҖВҷs preference: Now, therefore, be it
ThatГўВҖВ”
(1)
the House of Representatives condemns Senator Charles
Chuck
Schumer for rhetoric that threatens two Supreme Court justices and incites public discord, and is not befitting an elected Member of the Congress; and
(2)
it is the sense of the House of Representatives that Charles
Chuck
Schumer, Senator of New York, shouldГўВҖВ”
(A)
issue a formal apology to Justice Kavanaugh and Justice Gorsuch for making threats and sowing seeds of discord; and
(B)
issue a public statement that threats towards members of any of the three branches of the Federal Government are not an appropriate reaction for anyoneГўВҖВ”especially those in elected officeГўВҖВ”to express disagreement with any duly elected or appointed member of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch.
