To   Independent Establishments:

1. For the purpose of developing in   a more effective and economical system of employment and personnel management, and to promote the general welfare of the employees of  , there is hereby established a  , under the chairmanship of the President of  .

2. The council shall consist of the heads of the departments, the President of  , the Director of  , the Chief of  , the Chairman of  , and the Administrator of  . The President of   shall act as chairman of the council.

3. The Director of Research in   the United States Civil Service Commission shall serve as Director of  , and shall carry out the projects approved by the board. He shall appoint a project committee consisting of representatives of departments and advisory committees, who shall assist him in formulating projects to be submitted to the executive committee. He shall also appoint such planning and advisory committees as shall be necessary.

4. The following five members of the council shall constitute an executive committee: Chairman—President of  ; the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of the  ; the Secretary of  ; and the Chief of  . This executive committee shall (a) take action on plans and projects submitted by the director, subject to ratification by the council; (ft) present general plans to the director for formulation into projects.

5. The head of each department or independent establishment shall designate the employee best qualified to carry out in his establishment a fact-finding study, which shall be carried out as outlined by  . The findings of this study shall show the present personnel practices of  , shall serve as a basis for improvements in selection, flexibility of registers, announcements, transfers, promotions, training, and coordination of personnel activities and administration, and shall indicate the extent to which the   service does offer, or can be made to offer a partial or a permanent career.

6.   shall:

(a) Establish a liaison system between   and the several departments;

(b) With the assistance of advisory committees composed of representatives of industry, business organizations, and educational institutions, and through cooperation with these organizations, make available to the Government the best developments in personnel administration outside of Government service, and make available to the public and to educational institutions authoritative information regarding employment by  ; and

(c) Prepare specific plans for improvement and coordination of personnel administration in the Federal service, and cooperate with such departments and establishments as may desire to adopt such plans.

7. Each department representative shall also carry out in his department such of those projects hereafter approved by the council as the head of his department shall desire to have carried out.

8. Members of the council are authorized to assign to this work such members of their staffs as they believe essential for making this order effective.
