By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of   approved   (43 Stat. 976), entitled "An act to authorize the President in certain cases to modify visa fees," I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the fees to be required of aliens who are not immigrants as defined in the Immigration Act of   (43 Stat. 153), as amended, and who are citizens or subjects of countries making similar concessions to citizens of  .

The Secretary of   is hereby authorized to conclude an agreement, by exchange of notes, with any foreign country whereby citizens or subjects of such country who are not immigrants as defined in the Immigration Act of  , as amended, may receive passport visas for visiting   without payment of the application and visa fees prescribed in the act of   (11 Stat. 750), or upon payment of a reduced fee, in consideration of a waiver of visas or visa fees or reduction of fees being made for citizens of   of a similar class visiting such other country. Upon the conclusion of any such agreement the fee charges specified therein shall become effective, when and as provided therein, as if specifically stated in this order.

In cases where the Secretary of   has not been able to negotiate such an agreement by exchange of notes, he is hereby authorized, to the extent consistent with the public interest, to issue regulations reducing the fees prescribed in the act of  , to be collected for passport visas and applications therefor, or abolishing them altogether, in the case of any class of aliens desiring to visit   who are not immigrants as defined in the Immigration Act of  , as amended, and who are citizens or subjects of a country which grants similar privileges to citizens of   of a similar class visiting such country. Upon the issuance of any such regulations the fee charges specified therein shall become effective, when and as provided therein, as if specifically stated in this order and shall remain effective until the foreign country increases its corresponding fees charged citizens of  .

This order shall take effect immediately and shall supersede the Executive Order No. 4224½ of  .
