Article XXIV of the Consular Regulations,  , "Miscellaneous services", is hereby amended in part to read as follows:

XXIV

465.

Absence must be reported

  absences of consular officers from their posts, whether by leave or otherwise, must be reported to the Secretary of   and will be regarded as part of   leave during which a consular officer may be absent in   without loss of salary.—12  .  . Gen. 410;    .

467.

Conditions under which leaves of absence are granted

.—Leave of absence is granted, within statutory limitations, at the discretion of the President, acting through the Secretary of  . Leaves of absence are of two kinds, simple leave, and leave with permission to visit  . The granting of a simple leave of absence does not carry with it permission to return to  . A consular officer must receive express permission to return, in order that he may be entitled to the benefit of the statutory allowance of salary in transit.

Simple leave of absence with salary may be granted for not more than thirty days in any one year, except (1) in the case of illness on the part of the officer or a member of his family, (2) in the event of service at a post designated as unhealthy under Section 18K of the Act of  , (3) in the event of service at a post, other than those indicated in (2), designated by the Secretary of   as tropical, but not merely remote, or (4) in other exceptional circumstances, when simple leave with pay may be extended to a total of   in  , but no longer.

Leave of absence with permission to visit  , for not to exceed   in any calendar year, may be granted with salary not more often than once in  , except in cases where the health of officers requires that they should be absent from their posts, when continuous leave not to exceed   in either year may be granted covering parts of  . Leave is granted for   and, whether used or not, expires on  . When leave with permission to visit   (other than by reason of the health of officers) is completed in   at the end of a calendar year or expires by reason of the above limitation, the officer may be granted so much of the leave to which he would be entitled, under the foregoing provisions, in the succeeding   as will bring his aggregate leave for   to the following amounts subject to the law that the maximum period during which salary may be paid in any   is  :

(1) Not to exceed   for officers at posts other than those designated as tropical or unhealthy;

(2) Not to exceed   for officers at posts designated as tropical or unhealthy;

(3) Not to exceed   in exceptional circumstances other than service in remote places.

In any case in which leave of absence in   is to be extended to cover continuously all or a portion of the leave for the ensuing year, the absence in   may be supplemented in the discretion of the   by leave without salary in sufficient amount to cover the absence to the end of that calendar year, in order that the leave with pay in   may be available. Whenever leave of absence is claimed to be necessary on account of illness it is desirable that a certificate of the physician in attendance be forwarded to the Secretary of  .  ,  .

Leave of absence with permission to visit   is granted exclusive of the time actually and necessarily occupied in transit by the most direct route from the officer's post to his residence in   and return to his post.   for said transit period will be paid in addition to the salary for the duration of the leave of absence.—R.S.  .  ; 14 Comp.  .   will not be paid for more than one transit period in any one year (10 Comp.  ; 11 Comp.  ) except that when all or a part of a transit period occurs in a calendar year other than that in which the leave of absence was taken it will not impair the right of the consular officer to another transit period during that calendar year if leave should be granted.—14 Comp.  .

If consistent with the public interest leave of absence, for good reason, may be granted for a longer time than that stipulated in the foregoing, but without compensation.—R.S.  .  ; E.O.  .
