1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
VA Scheduling Accountability Act
.
2.
Compliance with scheduling requirements
(a)
Annual certification
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the director of each medical facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs annually certifies to the Secretary that the medical facility is in full compliance with all provisions of law and regulations relating to scheduling appointments for veterans to receive hospital care and medical services, including pursuant to Veterans Health Administration Directive 2010–027, or any successor directive.
(2)
Prohibition on waiver
The Secretary may not waive any provision of the laws or regulations described in paragraph (1) for a medical facility of the Department if such provision otherwise applies to the medical facility.
(b)
Explanation of noncompliance
If a director of a medical facility of the Department does not make a certification under subsection (a)(1) for any year, the director shall submit to the Secretary a report containing—
(1)
an explanation of why the director is unable to make such certification; and
(2)
a description of the actions the director is taking to ensure full compliance with the laws and regulations described in such subsection.
(c)
Annual report
The Secretary shall annually submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report containing, with respect to the year covered by the report—
(1)
a list of each medical facility of the Department for which a certification was made under subsection (a)(1); and
(2)
a list of each medical facility of the Department for which such a certification was not made, including a copy of each report submitted to the Secretary under subsection (b).
3.
Uniform application of directives and policies of Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the directives and policies of the Department of Veterans Affairs apply to each office or facility of the Department in a uniform manner.
(b)
Notification
If the Secretary does not uniformly apply the directives and policies of the Department pursuant to subsection (a), including by waiving such a directive or policy with respect to an office, facility, or element of the Department, the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate of such nonuniform application, including an explanation for the nonuniform application.
