1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Access to Timely Information Act
.
2.
Submission of certain information by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to Congress
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 5
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 529
the following new section:
529A.
Submission of certain information by the Secretary to Congress
(a)
In general
The submission of information by the Secretary to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate in response to a request for such information made by a covered member of the committee shall be deemed to be—
(1)
a covered disclosure under section 552a(b)(9) of title 5; and
(2)
a permitted disclosure under regulations promulgated under section 264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (
Public Law 104–191
), including a permitted disclosure for oversight activities authorized by law as described in section 164.512(d) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations.
(b)
Submission to chairman
With respect to a request for information described in subsection (a) made by a covered member of the committee who is not the chairman, the Secretary shall also submit such information to the chairman of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate, as the case may be.
(c)
Covered member of the committee
In this section, the term
covered member of the committee
means any of the following:
(1)
The chairman or ranking member of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate.
(2)
A chairman or ranking member of a subcommittee of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate.
(3)
The designee of a chairman or ranking member described in paragraph (1) or (2).
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 529 the following new item:
529A. Submission of certain information by the Secretary to Congress.
.
