1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Tracking Foreign Fighters in Terrorist Safe Havens Act
.
2.
Intelligence community reporting to Congress on foreign fighter flows
(a)
Reports required
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence, consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on foreign fighter flows to and from terrorist safe havens abroad.
(b)
Contents
Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to each terrorist safe haven, the following:
(1)
The total number of foreign fighters who have traveled or are suspected of having traveled to the terrorist safe haven since 2011, including the countries of origin of such foreign fighters.
(2)
The total number of United States citizens present in the terrorist safe haven.
(3)
The total number of foreign fighters who have left the terrorist safe haven or whose whereabouts are unknown.
(c)
Form
The reports submitted under subsection (a) may be submitted in classified form.
(d)
Sunset
The requirement to submit reports under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is two years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(e)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
in the Senate—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services;
(B)
the Select Committee on Intelligence;
(C)
the Committee on the Judiciary;
(D)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs;
(E)
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs;
(F)
the Committee on Foreign Relations; and
(G)
the Committee on Appropriations; and
(2)
in the House of Representatives—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services;
(B)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence;
(C)
the Committee on the Judiciary;
(D)
the Committee on Homeland Security;
(E)
the Committee on Financial Services;
(F)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs; and
(G)
the Committee on Appropriations.
