1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Freedom Riders National Historical Park Act
.
2.
Finding
Congress finds that on May 4, 1961, a Greyhound bus traveling from Atlanta, Georgia, to Alabama made a routine stop at the Anniston Greyhound station. When the bus stopped in Anniston, Alabama, it was violently attacked by a mob at the Greyhound bus station. As the Freedom Riders bus attempted to continue down the highway it was attacked again and broke down. A fire bomb was thrown inside the bus. The group was able to escape the bus and separate transportation had to be arranged for their continued travel. The violent confrontations the Freedom Riders faced demonstrated to the Nation the struggle for equality and justice. Their brave effort was part of the courageous struggle of the Civil Rights movement.
3.
Establishment of the Freedom Riders National Historical Park in Anniston, Alabama
(a)
Establishment and purpose
There is hereby established Freedom Riders National Historical Park in Anniston, Alabama, for the purposes of—
(1)
providing an internationally significant place for public education focused on the Freedom Riders, Civil Rights, and the bus burning; and
(2)
preserving the historical site for the heritage of the area and tourist destination.
(b)
Boundaries
The Park is located at 1031 Gurnee Avenue in downtown Anniston, Alabama, at the Greyhound Bus Station site where the attack began on May 14, 1961. The property includes the site of the original bus station.
(c)
Acquisition of land
The Secretary may acquire additional buildings, assets, lands, and interests in lands for addition to the park by donation, transfer, or exchange only.
4.
Administration
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall administer the Park in accordance with this Act and laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System. Nothing in this Act shall modify any authority of the United States to carry out Federal laws on Federal land located within the Park.
(b)
Cooperative agreement
The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with Federal, State, City, and other public or nonprofit institutions under which the Secretary may identify, interpret, and provide assistance for the perseveration of non-Federal properties within the Park and at sites in close proximity to the Park, including providing for placement of directional and interpretive signage, exhibits, and technology-based interpretive devices.
(c)
Management plan
Not later than 3 fiscal years after the dates on which funds are first made available to carry out this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the City, shall complete a general management plan for the Park in accordance with applicable laws, including section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.
5.
Definitions
For the purposes of this Act:
(1)
City
The term
City
means the city of Anniston, Alabama.
(2)
Park
The term
Park
means the Freedom Riders National Historical Park.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Interior.
