1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Restoration of Parental Rights and State Sovereignty Act of 2015
.
2.
Restoration of State sovereignty over public education and parental rights over the education of
their children
Part E of title IX of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7881 et seq.
)
is amended by adding at the end the following:
3
Restoration of State sovereignty over public education and parental rights over the education of
their children
9541.
States to retain rights and authorities they do not expressly waive
(a)
Retention of rights and authorities
No officer, employee, or other authority of the Secretary shall enforce against an authority of a
State, nor shall any authority of a State have any obligation to obey, any
requirement imposed as a condition of receiving assistance under a grant
program established under this Act, nor shall such program operate within
a State, unless the legislature of that State shall have by law expressly
approved that program and, in doing so, have waived the State’s rights and
authorities to act inconsistently with any requirement that might be
imposed by the Secretary as a condition of receiving that assistance.
(b)
Amendment of terms of receipt of Federal financial assistance
An officer, employee, or other authority of the Secretary may release assistance under a grant
program established under this Act to a State only after the legislature
of the State has by law expressly approved the program (as described in
subsection (a)). This approval may be accomplished by a vote to affirm a
State budget that includes the use of such Federal funds and any such
State budget must expressly include any requirement imposed as a condition
of receiving assistance under a grant program established under this Act
so that by approving the budget, the State legislature is expressly
approving the grant program and, in doing so, waiving the State’s rights
and authorities to act inconsistently with any requirement that might be
imposed by the Secretary as a condition of receiving that assistance.
(c)
Special rule for States with biennial legislatures
In the case of a State with a biennial legislature—
(1)
during a year in which the State legislature does not meet, subsections (a) and (b) shall not
apply; and
(2)
during a year in which the State legislature meets, subsections (a) and (b) shall apply, and, with
respect to any grant program established under this Act during the most
recent year in which the State legislature did not meet, the State may by
law expressly disapprove the grant program, and, if such disapproval
occurs, an officer, employee, or other authority of the Secretary may not
release any additional assistance to the State under that grant program.
(d)
Definition of state authority
As used in this section, the term
authority of a State
includes any administering agency of the State, any officer or employee of the State, and any
local government authority of the State.
(e)
Effective date
This section applies in each State beginning on the 90th day after the end of the first regular
session of the legislature of that State that begins 5 years after the
date of the enactment of the
Restoration of Parental Rights and State Sovereignty Act of 2015
and shall continue to apply in subsequent years until otherwise provided by law.
9542.
Dedication of savings to deficit reduction
Notwithstanding any formula reallocations stipulated under this Act, any funds under this Act not
allocated to a State because a State did not affirmatively agree to the
receipt of such funds shall not be reallocated among the States.
9543.
Definition of State with biennial legislature
In this Act, the term
State with a biennial legislature
means a State the legislature of which meets every other year.
9544.
Intent of Congress
It is the intent of Congress that other than the terms and conditions expressly approved by State
law under the terms of this subpart, control over public education and
parental rights to control the education of their children are vested
exclusively within the autonomous zone of independent authority reserved
to the States and individual Americans by the United States Constitution,
other than the Federal Government’s undiminishable obligation to enforce
minimum Federal standards of equal protection and due process.
.
3.
Table of contents
The table of contents in section 2 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
6301 et seq.) is amended by inserting after the item relating to subpart 2
of part E of title IX the following:
Subpart 3—Restoration of State Sovereignty over Public Education and Parental Rights over the
Education of their Children
9541. States to retain rights and authorities they do not expressly waive.
9542. Dedication of savings to deficit reduction.
9543. Definition of State with biennial legislature.
9544. Intent of Congress.
.
