1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protect Our Southwestern States Enforcement Act
or the
POSSE Act
.
2.
Full staffing of certain U.S. Border Patrol sectors and maintenance of certain U.S. Border Patrol stations
(a)
In general
(1)
Action required
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall take such actions as are necessary to—
(A)
ensure, in accordance with subsection (b), that the U.S. Border Patrol sectors specified in paragraph (2) are fully staffed; and
(B)
maintain at current levels the number of U.S. Border Patrol stations in each such sector.
(2)
Sectors specified
The U.S. Border Patrol sectors referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
(A)
Big Bend Sector, Texas.
(B)
Del Rio Sector, Texas.
(C)
El Paso Sector, Texas.
(D)
Laredo Sector, Texas.
(E)
Rio Grande Valley Sector, Texas.
(F)
El Centro Sector, California.
(G)
San Diego Sector, California.
(H)
Tucson Sector, Arizona.
(I)
Yuma Sector, Arizona.
(b)
Staffing
The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall hire a sufficient number of U.S. Border Patrol agents and U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers above the number of such agents and officers in existence as of the date of the enactment of this Act in order to provide for full staffing of the U.S. Border Patrol sectors specified in subsection (a).
3.
Double-layered fencing along entire southwest border
Paragraph (1) of section 102(b) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (
Public Law 104–208
;
8 U.S.C. 1103
note) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
shall construct reinforced fencing along not less than 700 miles of the southwest border where fencing would be most practical and effective
and inserting
shall, not later than December 31, 2019, construct double-layered fencing along the entire southwest border
;
(2)
by striking subparagraph (B); and
(3)
by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively.
