1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Clarifying Congressional Intent in Providing for DC Home Rule Act of 2016
.
2.
Repeal of Local Budget Autonomy Amendment Act of 2012
Effective with respect to fiscal year 2013 and each succeeding fiscal year, the Local Budget Autonomy Amendment Act of 2012 (D.C. Law 19–321) is hereby repealed, and any provision of law amended or repealed by such Act shall be restored or revived as if such Act had not been enacted into law.
3.
Clarification of roles of District government and Congress in local budget process
(a)
Clarification of application of Federal appropriations process to General Fund
Section 450 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.50, D.C. Official Code) is amended—
(1)
in the first sentence, by striking
The General Fund
and inserting
(a)
In general
.—The General Fund
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
Application of Federal appropriations process
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as creating a continuing appropriation of the General Fund described in subsection (a). All funds provided for the District of Columbia shall be appropriated on an annual fiscal year basis through the Federal appropriations process. For each fiscal year, the District shall be subject to all applicable requirements of subchapter III of chapter 13 and subchapter II of
chapter 15
of title 31, United States Code (commonly known as the
Anti-Deficiency Act
), the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921, and all other requirements and restrictions applicable to appropriations for such fiscal year.
.
(b)
Clarification of limitation on authority of District of Columbia To change existing budget process
laws
Section 603(a) of such Act (sec. 1–206.03(a), D.C. Official Code) is amended—
(1)
by striking
existing
; and
(2)
by striking the period at the end and inserting the following:
, or as authorizing the District of Columbia to make any such change.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act.
