1.
Department of Veterans Affairs continuing education program for certain non-Department medical
professionals
(a)
Establishment of continuing medical education program
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a continuing medical education program for non-Department medical professionals with the goal of—
(A)
increasing knowledge and recognition of medical conditions common to veterans and family members of veterans; and
(B)
improving outreach to veterans and family members of veterans.
(2)
Education provided
The program shall include education on the following:
(A)
Dealing with patients who are veterans or family members of veterans.
(B)
Identifying and treating common mental and physical conditions of veterans and family members of veterans.
(C)
Programs and benefits available to veterans and family members of veterans through the following organizations:
(i)
The Department of Veterans Affairs.
(ii)
The Department of Labor.
(iii)
Such other Federal agencies and non-Federal organizations as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(D)
The health care system of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(E)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(b)
Duration of program
The program shall be carried out during the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Administration of program
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall carry out the program on an Internet website of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(2)
Curriculum and credit provided
The Secretary shall determine the curriculum of the program and the number of hours of credit to provide to participating non-Department medical professionals for continuing medical education.
(3)
Accreditation
The Secretary shall ensure that the program is accredited in as many States as practicable.
(4)
Consistency with existing rules
The Secretary shall ensure that the program is consistent with the rules and regulations of the following:
(A)
The medical licensing agency of each State in which the program is accredited.
(B)
Such medical credentialing organizations as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(5)
User cost
The Secretary shall carry out the program at no cost to participating non-Department medical professionals.
(d)
Non-Department medical professional defined
(1)
In general
In this section, the term
non-Department medical professional
means any individual specified in paragraph (2) who is licensed by an appropriate medical authority in the United States and in good standing, is not an employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and provides care to veterans or family members of veterans under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(2)
Individual specified
An individual specified in this paragraph is any of the following individuals:
(A)
A doctor.
(B)
A nurse.
(C)
A physician assistant.
(D)
A psychologist.
(E)
A psychiatrist.
(F)
Such other individuals as the Secretary considers appropriate.
