1.
Border infrastructure projects
Section 133 of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(i)
Border States
(1)
In general
After consultation with relevant transportation planning organizations, the Governor of a State that shares a land border with Canada or Mexico may designate each fiscal year not more than 5 percent of funds made available to the State under subsection (d)(1)(B) for border infrastructure projects eligible under section 1303 of SAFETEA–LU (
23 U.S.C. 101
note;
Public Law 109–59
).
(2)
Use of funds
Funds designated under this subsection shall be available under the requirements of section 1303 of SAFETEA–LU (
23 U.S.C. 101
note;
Public Law 109–59
).
(3)
Certification
Before making a designation under paragraph (1), the Governor shall certify that the designation is consistent with transportation planning requirements under this title.
(4)
Notification
Not later than 30 days after making a designation under paragraph (1), the Governor shall submit to the relevant transportation planning organizations within the border region a written notification of any suballocated or distributed amount of funds available for obligation by jurisdiction.
(5)
Limitation
This subsection applies only to funds apportioned to a State after the date of reauthorization of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (
Public Law 112–141
).
(6)
Deadline for designation
A designation under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
be submitted to the Secretary not later than 30 days before the beginning of the fiscal year for which the designation is being made; and
(B)
remain in effect for the funds designated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year until the Governor of the State notifies the Secretary of the termination of such designation.
(7)
Termination of designation
On the date of a termination under paragraph (6)(B), all remaining unobligated funds that had been designated under paragraph (1) for the fiscal year for which the designation is being terminated shall be made available to the State for the purposes under subsection (d)(1)(B).
.
