1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Research Excellence and Advancements for Dyslexia Act
or the
READ Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
Dyslexia is defined as an unexpected difficulty in reading by an individual who has the intelligence to be a much better reader.
(2)
As many as one out of six, or 8,500,000, American school children may have dyslexia.
(3)
Since 1975, dyslexia has been included in the list of qualifying learning disabilities under the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975 and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
3.
Research in Disabilities Education
(a)
Program
Nothing in this Act alters the National Science Foundation’s Research in Disabilities Education program for fundamental and implementation research about learners (of all ages) with disabilities, including dyslexia, in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). The National Science Foundation shall continue to encourage efforts to understand and address disability-based differences in STEM education and workforce participation, including differences for dyslexic learners.
(b)
Line item
The Director of the National Science Foundation shall include the amount requested for the Research in Disabilities Education program in the Foundation’s annual congressional budget justification.
4.
Dyslexia
(a)
In general
The National Science Foundation shall support multi-directorate, merit-reviewed, and competitively awarded research on the science of dyslexia, including the early identification of children and students with dyslexia, professional development for teachers and administrators of students with dyslexia, and curricula and educational tools needed for children with dyslexia. Research supported under this subsection shall be conducted with the goal of practical application.
(b)
Funding
The National Science Foundation shall devote at least $5,000,000 annually to research described in subsection (a), to come from amounts made available for the Research and Related Activities account or the Education and Human Resources Directorate. No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated under this section. This Act shall be carried out using funds otherwise appropriated by law.
