1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Checkpoint Optimization and Efficiency Act of 2016
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that airport checkpoint wait times should not take priority over the security of passengers.
3.
Enhanced staffing allocation model
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall complete an assessment of the Administration’s staffing allocation model to determine the necessary staffing positions at all airports in the United States at which the Administration operates passenger checkpoints.
(b)
Appropriate staffing
The staffing allocation model described in subsection (a) shall be based on necessary staffing levels to maintain minimal passenger wait times.
(c)
Additional resources
In assessing necessary staffing for minimal passenger wait times referred to in subsection (b), the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall include the use of canine explosives detection teams and technology to assist screeners conducting security checks.
(d)
Transparency
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall share with air carriers and airport operators the staffing allocation model described in subsection (a).
(e)
GAO review
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall review the staffing allocation model described in subsection (a) and report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the results of such review.
4.
Effective utilization of staffing resources
(a)
In general
To the greatest extent practicable, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall direct that Transportation Security Officers are assigned to passenger and baggage security screening functions and that other Administration and other appropriate personnel are utilized for tasks not directly related to security screening, including restocking bins and providing instructions and support to passengers in security lines.
(b)
Assessment and reassignment
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall conduct an assessment of headquarters personnel and reassign appropriate personnel to assist with airport security screening activities on a permanent or temporary basis.
5.
TSA staffing and resource allocation
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall take the following actions:
(1)
Utilize the Administration’s Behavior Detection Officers to verify traveler documents, particularly at designated PreCheck lanes to ensure that such lanes are operational for use and maximum efficiency.
(2)
Make every practicable effort to grant additional flexibility and authority to Federal Security Directors in matters related to checkpoint and checked baggage staffing allocation and employee overtime.
(3)
Disseminate to air carriers, airport operators, and appropriate Administration personnel a list of checkpoint optimization best practices.
(4)
Expand efforts to increase the public’s participation in the Administration’s PreCheck program, including deploying Administration-approved ready-to-market private sector solutions and offering secure online and mobile enrollment opportunities.
(5)
Direct the Aviation Security Advisory Committee (established pursuant to section 44946 of title 49, United States Code) to provide recommendations within 60 days on checkpoint operations optimization.
(b)
Staffing advisory coordination
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall—
(1)
in coordination with local representatives from airports and air carriers, establish a staffing advisory working group at each airport at which the Administration oversees or performs passenger security screening to coordinate a service level agreement and minimum Administration staffing numbers to be provided to each such airport;
(2)
in coordination with representatives from airports and air carriers, establish a staffing advisory committee at the national level to coordinate and share information relating to best practices concerning Administration staffing numbers being provided to airports; and
(3)
certify to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate that such staffing advisory committees have been established.
(c)
Reporting
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall—
(1)
report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate regarding how the Administration’s Passenger Screening Canine assets may be deployed and utilized for maximum efficiency to mitigate risk and optimize checkpoint operations; and
(2)
report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the status of the Administration’s Credential Authentication Technology Assessment program and how deployment of such program might optimize checkpoint operations.
6.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act may be construed as authorizing or directing the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration to prioritize reducing wait times over security effectiveness.
