1.
Short title
This Act may be cited a the
Veterans Information Modernization Act
.
2.
Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 73
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
7330B.
Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care
(a)
Report required
Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care under the laws administered by the Secretary and on the administration of the provision of such care and services by the Veterans Health Administration during the calendar year preceding the calendar year during which the report is submitted.
(b)
Contents of report
Each report required by subsection (a) shall include each of the following for the year covered by the report:
(1)
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Veterans Health Administration program in increasing the access of veterans eligible for hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care furnished by the Secretary to such care.
(2)
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Veterans Health Administration in improving the quality of health care provided to such veterans, without increasing the costs incurred by the Government or such veterans, which includes the relevant information for each medical center and Veterans Integrated Service Network of the Department set forth separately.
(3)
An assessment of—
(A)
the workload of physicians and other employees of the Veterans Health Administration;
(B)
patient demographics and utilization rates;
(C)
physician compensation;
(D)
the productivity of physicians and other employees of the Veterans Health Administration;
(E)
the percentage of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care provided to such veterans in Department facilities and in non-Department facilities and any changes in such percentages compared to the year preceding the year covered by the report; and
(F)
pharmaceutical prices.
(c)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
hospital care
,
medical services
,
nursing home care
, and
non-Department facilities
have the meanings given such terms in section 1701 of this title.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7330A the following new item:
7330B. Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care.
.
