1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Do Your Job Act
.
2.
Holding salaries of Members of Congress in escrow upon failure to vote on regular appropriation bills
(a)
Holding Salaries in Escrow
(1)
In general
If by October 1 of any calendar year (beginning with 2016), a House of Congress has not considered (in a manner meeting the conditions set forth in paragraph (2), in the case of the House of Representatives) and held a vote on final passage of each of the regular appropriation bills for the fiscal year which begins on that date, during the period described in subsection (b) the payroll administrator of that House of Congress shall deposit in an escrow account all payments otherwise required to be made during such period for the compensation of Members of Congress who serve in that House of Congress, and shall release such payments to such Members only upon the expiration of such period.
(2)
Conditions for consideration of bills
The House of Representatives meets the conditions set forth in this paragraph for the consideration of a regular appropriation bill if Members are permitted to offer amendments to the bill in either the House or in the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union.
(b)
Period Described
With respect to a House of Congress and a calendar year, the period described in this paragraph is the period which begins on October 1 of the calendar year and ends on the earlier of—
(1)
the first day by which the House of Congress has held a vote on final passage of each of the regular appropriation bills for the fiscal year which begins on that date; or
(2)
the last day of the Congress during which that calendar year occurs.
3.
Administration of escrow
(a)
Withholding and Remittance of Amounts From Payments Held in Escrow
The payroll administrator of a House of Congress shall provide for the same withholding and remittance with respect to a payment deposited in an escrow account under section 2 that would apply to the payment if the payment were not subject to such section.
(b)
Role of Secretary of the Treasury
The Secretary of the Treasury shall provide the payroll administrators of the Houses of Congress with such assistance as may be necessary to enable the payroll administrators to carry out this Act.
4.
Release of amounts at end of a Congress
In order to ensure that this Act is carried out in a manner consistent with the twenty-seventh article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States, the payroll administrator of a House of Congress shall release for payments to Members of that House of Congress any amounts remaining in any escrow account under this Act on the last day of the Congress during which the amounts were deposited in such account.
5.
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
the term
Member
includes a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress;
(2)
the
payroll administrator
of a House of Congress means—
(A)
in the case of the House of Representatives, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, or an employee of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer who is designated by the Chief Administrative Officer to carry out this Act; and
(B)
in the case of the Senate, the Secretary of the Senate, or an employee of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate who is designated by the Secretary to carry out this Act; and
(3)
the term
regular appropriation bill
means any annual appropriation bill which, with respect to the Congress involved, is under the jurisdiction of a single subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives (pursuant to the Rules of the House of Representatives for that Congress) and a single subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate (pursuant to the Standing Rules of the Senate).
