1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Countering Violent Extremism Task Force Oversight Act
.
2.
Report on countering violent extremism task force
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force.
(b)
Contents
Each report required under subsection (a) shall include an examination of the following:
(1)
How the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force plans and coordinates countering violent extremism programs of the Federal Government.
(2)
How the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force evaluates the effectiveness of countering violent extremism programs of the Federal Government.
(3)
How the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force plans and coordinates Federal programs to combat violent extremism that specifically address and counter the threat of radicalization of United States citizens or lawful permanent residents by foreign terrorists or foreign terrorist organizations (designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
)) through the Internet, social media, or other platforms.
(4)
How the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force plans and coordinates countering violent extremism programs of the Federal Government that specifically address and counter the threat of
lone wolf
acts of terrorism conducted by United States citizens or lawful permanent residents who have been radicalized.
(5)
The levels of funding, personnel, and department or agency resources that are devoted to the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force.
(6)
Problems and difficulties associated with the development, implementation, and coordination of countering violent extremism programs of the Federal Government.
(7)
A comparison of the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force with similar organizations and programs employed by United States allies and partners.
(8)
Proposed policy recommendations for developing coordinated, coherent, cohesive whole-government countering violent extremism programs of the Federal Government.
(c)
Form
The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex if the Secretary of Homeland Security and Attorney General determine that such is appropriate.
(d)
Classified briefings
The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General may provide to the appropriate congressional committees classified briefings on the contents of the report required under subsection (a).
(e)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
in the House of Representatives—
(A)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence;
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs;
(C)
the Committee on Homeland Security; and
(D)
the Committee on the Judiciary; and
(2)
in the Senate—
(A)
the Select Committee on Intelligence;
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Relations;
(C)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs; and
(D)
the Committee on the Judiciary.
