1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safe Food for Seniors Act of 2015
.
2.
Qualification of director of food services of a Medicare skilled nursing facility or a Medicaid nursing facility
(a)
Medicare skilled nursing facilities
Section 1819(b)(4)(A) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395i–3(b)(4)(A)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
With respect to meeting any staffing requirement imposed by the Secretary for purposes of satisfying clause (iv), in the case that the facility does not employ a full-time qualified dietitian (as defined in paragraph (2) of section 483.35(a) of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect as of the date of the enactment of the Safe Food for Seniors Act of 2013) but complies with such section by designating a director of food services (as described in paragraph (1) of such section), the director of food services shall be a Certified Dietary Manager meeting the applicable requirements published by the Certifying Board for Dietary Managers, a Dietetic Technician, Registered meeting the applicable requirements published by the Commission on Dietetic Registration, or an individual with equivalent military or academic qualifications (as specified by the Secretary).
.
(b)
Medicaid nursing facilities
Section 1919(b)(4)(A) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396r(b)(4)(A)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
With respect to meeting any staffing requirement imposed by the Secretary for purposes of satisfying clause (iv), in the case that the facility does not employ a full-time qualified dietitian (as defined in paragraph (2) of section 483.35(a) of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect as of the date of the enactment of the Safe Food for Seniors Act of 2013) but complies with such section by designating a director of food services (as described in paragraph (1) of such section), the director of food services shall be a Certified Dietary Manager meeting the applicable requirements published by the Certifying Board for Dietary Managers, a Dietetic Technician, Registered meeting the applicable requirements published by the Commission on Dietetic Registration, or an individual with equivalent military or academic qualifications (as specified by the Secretary).
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
