1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicare Crosswalk Hospital Code Development Act of 2015
.
2.
Development of Medicare HCPCS version of MS–DRG codes for similar hospital services
Section 1886 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395ww
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(t)
Relating similar inpatient and outpatient hospital services
(1)
Development of HCPCS version of MS–DRG codes
(A)
In general
Not later than January 1, 2018, the Secretary shall develop HCPCS versions for MS–DRGs that is similar to the ICD–10–PCS for such MS–DRGs such that, to the extent possible, the MS–DRG assignment shall be similar for a claim coded with the HCPCS version as an identical claim coded with an ICD–10–PCS code.
(B)
Coverage of surgical MS–DRGs
In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall develop HCPCS versions of MS–DRG codes for not fewer than 10 surgical MS–DRGs.
(C)
Publication and dissemination of the HCPCS versions of MS–DRGs
(i)
In general
The Secretary shall develop an HCPCS MS–DRG definitions manual and software that is similar to the definitions manual and software for ICD–10–PCS codes for such MS–DRGs. The Secretary shall post the HCPCS MS–DRG definitions manual and software on the Internet website of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. The HCPCS MS–DRG definitions manual and software shall be in the public domain and available for use and redistribution without charge.
(ii)
Use of previous analysis done by MedPAC
In developing the HCPCS MS–DRG definitions manual and software under clause (i), the Secretary shall consult with the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission and shall consider the analysis done by such Commission in translating outpatient surgical claims into inpatient surgical MS–DRGs in preparing chapter 7 (relating to hospital short-stay policy issues) of its
Medicare and the Health Care Delivery System
report submitted to Congress in June 2015.
(D)
Definition and reference
In this paragraph:
(i)
HCPCS
The term
HCPCS
means, with respect to hospital services (other than inpatient hospital services) for which payment is made under this title, the code under the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) (or a successor code) for such services.
(ii)
ICD–
10
–PCS
A reference to an ICD–10–PCS code includes a reference to a successor to such code.
.
