1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Flood Insurance Fairness Act of 2015
.
2.
Repeal of certain rate increases
(a)
Repeal of prohibition on subsidized rates
Paragraph (2) of section 1307(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 4014
) is amended—
(1)
by striking subparagraph (A);
(2)
in subparagraph (C), by inserting
or
after the semicolon at the end;
(3)
by striking subparagraph (D); and
(4)
by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and (E) as subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) respectively.
(b)
Conforming amendments relating to limitation on annual rate increases
Paragraph (4) of section 1308(e) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 4015(e)(4)
), as amended by section 5 of
Public Law 113–89
, is amended by striking
(A) through (E)
and inserting
(A) through (C)
.
(c)
Implementation
(1)
Effective date
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (in this subsection referred to as the
Administrator
) shall make available such rate tables as necessary to implement the amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) effective on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Implementation, coordination, and guidance
(A)
Inclusion of write-your-own companies
To ensure the participation of Write Your Own companies (as such term is defined in section 100202(a) of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (
42 U.S.C. 4004(a)
)), the Administrator and the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall consult with Write Your Own companies throughout the development of guidance and rate tables necessary to implement the amendments made by subsections (a) and (b).
(B)
Implementation and guidance
The Administrator shall issue final guidance and rate tables necessary to implement the amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) not later than eight months following the date of the enactment of this Act. Write Your Own companies, in coordination with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall have not less than six months but not more than eight months following the issuance of such final guidance and rate tables to implement the changes required by such final guidance and rate tables.
