1.
Nurseries
Title VI of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1781 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
604.
Nurseries
(a)
In general
Using funds made available under section 40804(b)(8) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (
16 U.S.C. 6592a(b)(8)
)—
(1)
the Secretary shall carry out a pilot program to establish and operate nurseries on public lands and other Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary; and
(2)
the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall carry out a pilot program to establish and operate nurseries on National Forest System land.
(b)
Locations
(1)
Department of the Interior
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program established under subsection (a)(1) in—
(A)
4 of the eleven contiguous Western States; and
(B)
1 State that is not 1 of the eleven contiguous Western States.
(2)
Forest Service
The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall carry out the pilot program established under subsection (a)(2) in—
(A)
4 of the eleven contiguous Western States; and
(B)
1 State, including the State of Vermont, that is not 1 of the eleven contiguous Western States.
(c)
Activities
(1)
Definition of Secretary concerned
In this subsection, the term
Secretary concerned
means—
(A)
the Secretary, with respect to public lands and other Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary; and
(B)
the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, with respect to National Forest System land.
(2)
Authorizations
In carrying out a pilot program established under subsection (a), the Secretary concerned may—
(A)
establish a tree nursery on Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned, and develop the infrastructure necessary to support that nursery, to address Federal and regional conservation tree planting needs, consistent with the Bureau of Land Management National Seed Strategy;
(B)
purchase necessary equipment and machinery and construct the necessary facilities on Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned to store material, equipment, and machinery authorized under this section;
(C)
enter into cooperative agreements with non-Federal entities to use trees produced in nurseries established under the pilot program;
(D)
conduct necessary research on grazing and forest management on Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned, ensuring the long-term sustainability of such grazing and forest management, to maximize the ability—
(i)
to sequester carbon;
(ii)
to prevent soil erosion; and
(iii)
to improve air and water quality; and
(E)
hire and train personnel to carry out the activities described in this section.
.
