SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established   on   and   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall be composed of the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , and  . Each member of the   shall designate an official or employee of his department as an alternate member who shall serve as a member of the   in lieu of the regular member whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the  ; and the alternate member shall while serving as such have in all respects the same status as a member of the   as does the regular member for whom he is serving. The Chairman of the   shall be the Attorney General.

(b) The   may invite representatives of the Judiciary to participate in its deliberations.

 . 2.   (1) shall review, evaluate and promote the coordination of the activities of the several departments and agencies of   relating to juvenile delinquency and youth crime; (2) shall stimulate experimentation, innovation and improvement in Federal programs; (3) shall encourage cooperation and the sharing of information between   agencies and state, local and private organizations having similar responsibilities and interests; (4) shall make recommendations to the   departments and agencies on measures to make more effective the prevention, treatment, and control of juvenile delinquency and youth crime.

 . 3. There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) which shall consist of not less than 12 and not more than 21 members, who shall be persons (including persons from public and voluntary organizations) who are recognized authorities in professional or technical fields related to juvenile delinquency or youth crime, or persons representative of the general public who are leaders in programs concerned with juvenile delinquency or youth crime, and who shall be designated by the Chairman of the   after consultation with the   and serve at the pleasure of the  . The Chairman of the   shall be designated by the Chairman of the  .

 . 4. The   shall furnish the   advice and recommendations with respect to the matters with which the   is concerned under section 2 of this order and any other matters relating to the functions of the   on which it may desire information or advice.

 . 5. The   shall make reports to the President from time to time with respect to its activities and shall make recommendations to the President regarding policy, programs and any additional measures including legislation which it deems desirable to further the objectives of this order.

 . 6. All executive departments and agencies of the Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   and to furnish it such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its functions and duties.

 . 7. Consonant with law,  ,  , and  , and  , shall as may be necessary for the effectuation of the purpose of this order, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include the detailing of employees to the   to perform such functions, consistent with the purpose of this order, as the Chairman of the   may assign to them. One of such employees may be designated to serve as Executive Director of the  . The necessary office space, facilities and supplies for the use of the   shall be furnished by the three departments concerned as they shall agree.
