SECTION 1. (a)   and   established by sections 7 and 8 of Executive Order No. 11627 of  , are hereby continued and shall act as agencies of  , and the Chairman of each of these bodies, acting in accordance with the majority vote of its members, shall, pursuant to the goals established by  , take such steps as may be necessary, and authorized by or pursuant to this  , to stabilize prices, rents, wages, and salaries. Subject to action already taken under Executive Order No.   and pending action under this  , and except as otherwise provided in section 203 of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, Executive Order No. 11639 of January 11,  , and the President's memorandum concerning administrative pay adjustments of  , prices, rents, wages, and salaries are stabilized effective as of  , at levels not greater than the highest of those pertaining to a substantial volume of actual transactions by each individual, business, firm, or other entity of any kind during the   period ending  , for like or similar commodities or services. If no transactions occurred in that period, the ceiling will be the highest price, rent, salary, or wage in the nearest preceding   period in which transactions did occur. No person shall charge, assess, or receive, or knowingly pay or offer to pay, directly or indirectly, in any transaction, prices or rents in any form higher than those permitted hereunder, and no person shall, directly or indirectly, pay or agree to pay, in any transaction, wages or salaries in any form, or to use any means to obtain payment of wages and salaries in any form, higher than those permitted hereunder, whether by retroactive increase or otherwise.

(b) Each person engaged in the business of selling or providing commodities or services shall maintain available for public inspection a record of the highest prices or rents charged for such or similar commodities or services during the   period ending  .

(c) The provisions of sections 1 and 2 of this   shall not apply to the prices charged for raw agricultural products.

 . 2. (a) The Cost of Living Council (hereinafter referred to as the  ), established by section 2 of Executive Order No. 11615 of August 15,  , is hereby continued and shall continue to act as an agency of  .

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members: The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , the Special Assistant to the President for  , and such others as the President may, from time to time, designate. The Secretary of the   shall serve as Chairman of the   and the Chairman of   shall serve as Vice Chairman. The Chairman of   of   shall serve as adviser to the  .

(c) There shall be a Director of   who shall be appointed by the President, be a member of the  , be a full-time official of  , be the  's Chief Executive Officer, and shall be compensated at the rate prescribed for level III of the Executive Schedule by   of Title 5 of the United States Code.

 . 3. (a) Except as otherwise provided herein, all of the powers and duties conferred upon the President by the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, shall continue to be delegated to the  , including, without limitation, the power to stabilize interest rates and corporate dividends and similar transfers at levels consistent with orderly economic growth and the power and duty to make the determinations and take the actions required or permitted by the Act.

(b) The   shall develop and recommend to the President policies, mechanisms and procedures to achieve and maintain stability of prices and costs in a growing economy. To this end it shall consult with representatives of agriculture, industry, labor,   and local governments, consumers and the public, through   and otherwise.

(c) In all of its actions the   shall be guided by the need to maintain consistency of price and wage policies with fiscal, monetary, international, and other economic policies of  .

(d) The   shall inform the public, agriculture, industry, and labor concerning the need for controlling inflation and shall encourage and promote voluntary action to that end.

(e) The   shall prepare the section of the Economic Report and the   reports required by section 216 of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended.

 . 4. (a) The  , in carrying out the provisions of this  , may continue to (i) prescribe definitions for any terms used herein, (ii) make exceptions or grant exemptions, (iii) issue regulations and orders, (iv) provide for the establishment of committees and other comparable groups, and (v) take such other actions as it determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  . More particularly, the  , working through appropriate delegations to the Chairman of   and the Chairman of  , may (1) notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of section 1 of this  , prescribe base periods for determining maximum levels for prices, rents, wages, and salaries other than the base period specified in subsection (a) of section 1 of this  , and (2) otherwise increase or decrease, subject to section 203 of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, the maximum levels for prices, rents, wages, and salaries prescribed by subsection (a) of section 1 of this Order.

(b) The   may redelegate to any agency, instrumentality, or official of   any authority under this  , and may, in administering this  , utilize the services of any other agencies,  , as may be available and appropriate.

(c) On request of the Chairman of the  , each executive department or agency is authorized and directed, consistent with law, to furnish the   with any available information which the   may require in the performance of its functions.

 . 5. The   may require the maintenance of appropriate records or other evidence which are necessary in carrying out the provisions of this  , and may require any person to maintain and produce for examination such records or other evidence, in such form as it shall require, concerning prices, rents, wages, and salaries and all related matters. The   may make such exemptions or exceptions from any requirement otherwise imposed as are consistent with the purposes of this  . Any type of record or evidence required under regulations issued under this   shall be retained for such period as the   may prescribe.

 . 6. The expenses of the   shall be paid from such funds as may be available therefor, under legislation, from   or otherwise.

 . 7. (a) There is hereby continued the "Pay Board" (hereinafter referred to as the Board).

(b) The Board shall be composed of fifteen members. The members shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the  ; except that the foregoing requirement with respect to   confirmation does not apply to any member of the Board (other than the Chairman) who was serving, pursuant to appointment by the President, on  , and who continues to serve pursuant to such appointment, after such time. The   shall include five labor representatives, five business representatives, and five representatives of the general public. The members of the   shall serve at the pleasure of the President, and the President shall designate one of the members representing the public to serve as Chairman. Any person serving in   on  , may continue to serve in such capacity on an interim basis without regard to the requirement with respect to   confirmation until the expiration of   after  . The Chairman shall serve full-time and be an official of   and shall be compensated at the rate prescribed for Level III of the Executive Schedule by   of Title 5 of the United States Code. Each other member shall receive compensation at a rate equal to the per diem equivalent of the rate prescribed for Level IV of the Executive Schedule by Section 5315 of Title 5 of the United States Code, when actually engaged in the performance of his duties as such member. The Chairman shall designate an Executive Director of the Board who shall be compensated at the rate prescribed for Level V of the Executive Schedule by Section 5316 of Title 5 of the United States Code, and who shall serve under the direction of the Chairman of the   and perform such duties as the Chairman may specify. The   shall conduct its proceedings in such manner as will be conducive to the proper dispatch of its business and to the ends of justice.

(c) The Board shall perform such functions with respect to the stabilization of wages and salaries as the   delegates to the Board. Legal authority shall be in the Chairman of the  , who shall act only in accordance with the majority vote of its members, shall perform such functions with respect to the stabilization of wages and salaries as the   may delegate to him, including the development and establishment of criteria and standards for the stabilization of wages and salaries which shall be applied in the administration of this  , as may be delegated to him by the  .

 . 8. (a) There is hereby continued  " (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of seven members. The members shall be representative of the general public and shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the   except that the foregoing requirement with respect to   confirmation does not apply to any member of the   (other than the Chairman) who was serving, pursuant to appointment by the President, on  , and who continues to serve pursuant to such appointment, after such time. The members of the   shall serve at the pleasure of the President, and the President shall designate one of the members to serve as Chairman. Any person serving in   on  , may continue to serve in such capacity on an interim basis without regard to the requirement with respect to   confirmation until the expiration of   after  . The Chairman shall serve full-time and be an official of   and shall be compensated at the rate prescribed for Level III of the Executive Schedule by   of Title 5 of the United States Code. Each other member shall receive compensation at a rate equal to the per diem equivalent of the rate prescribed for Level IV of the Executive Schedule by Section 5315 of Title 5 of the United States Code, when actually engaged in the performance of his duties as such member. The Chairman shall designate an Executive Director of the Board who shall be compensated at the rate prescribed for Level V of the Executive Schedule by Section 5316 of Title 5 of the United States Code, and who shall serve under the direction of the Chairman of the   and perform such duties as the Chairman may specify. The   shall conduct its proceedings in such manner as will be conducive to the proper dispatch of its business and to the ends of justice.

(c) The   shall perform such functions with respect to the stabilization of prices and rents as the   delegates to the  . The Chairman of the  , who shall act only in accordance with the majority vote of its members, shall perform such functions with respect to the stabilization of prices and rents as the   may delegate to him, including the development and establishment of criteria and standards for the stabilization of prices and rents which shall be applied in the administration of this  , as may be delegated to him by the  .

 . 9. (a)   and Dividends established by section 9 of Executive Order No.   is hereby continued. The   shall be composed of the Chairman of   of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , and such others as the President may, from time to time, designate. The Chairman of   of   shall serve as Chairman of the  .

(b) This Committee shall, subject to review by the  , formulate and execute a program for obtaining voluntary restraints on interest rates and dividends.

 . 10. (a)   established by section 10 of Executive Order No.   is hereby continued. The   shall be composed of such members as the President may from time to time appoint. The members shall be generally representative of medical professions and related occupations, hospitals, the insurance industry, other supporting industries, consumer interests, and the public. The President shall designate the Chairman of the  .

(b) This Committee shall provide advice concerning special considerations that tend to contribute to inflation in the health services industry. This Committee shall also assist   in the performance of their functions by making technical analyses of specific matters referred to it by  .

 . 11. (a)   established by section 11 of Executive Order No.   is hereby continued. The   shall be composed of such representatives of   and local governments and subdivisions thereof, representatives of   and local employees, and such others as the President may, from time to time, appoint. The President shall designate the Chairman of the  .

(b) This Committee shall provide advice concerning special considerations involved in the stabilization of prices, rents, wages, and salaries pursuant to this   as they relate to   and local governments, and subdivisions and employees thereof. This   shall also assist   in the performance of their functions by making technical analyses of specific matters referred to it by  .

 . 12. (a)   established by section 11A of Executive Order No.  , as amended, is hereby continued.   shall be composed of such members as the President may from time to time appoint. The President shall designate the Chairman of  .

(b)   shall provide advice concerning special considerations involved in the stabilization of rents. It shall also assist the   in the performance of its functions by making technical analyses of specific matters referred to it by the  .

 . 13. On request of the Chairman of  , Federal departments and agencies shall provide such assistance in carrying out the provisions of this   as is permitted by law.

 . 14. All orders, regulations, circulars, or other directives issued and all other actions taken pursuant to Executive Order No.  , as amended, and Executive Order No.  , as amended, and in effect on the date of this  , are hereby confirmed and ratified, and shall remain in full force and effect, as if issued under this  , unless and until altered, amended, or revoked by the   or by such competent authority as the   may specify.

 . 15. (a)   established by section 1 of Executive Order No.   of  , and the craft dispute boards authorized by section 2 of that  , are hereby continued, except as modified by the provisions of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended.

(b) The Chairman of  , acting in accordance with the majority vote of its members, shall continue to perform all functions vested in the Secretary of   by Executive Order No.  , with respect to (1) the certification of determinations that a proposed wage or salary increase is not acceptable pursuant to section 5 of that  , (2) the approval of rules and regulations issued by   pursuant to section 10 of that  , and (3) the issuance of rules and regulations pursuant to section 10 of that  .

(c) The revocation of subsection (d) of section 5 and section 6 of Executive Order No.   contained in subsection (c) of section 14 of Executive Order No.   shall remain in effect.

(d) Section 8 of Executive Order No.   is hereby revoked and   established by that section is therefore abolished.

 . 16. (a) Whoever willfully violates this   or any order or regulation issued under authority of this   shall be subject to a fine of not more than $5,000 for each such violation. Whoever violates this   or any order or regulation issued under authority of this   shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $2,500 for each such violation.

(b) The   may in its discretion request   to bring actions for injunctions authorized under Section 209 of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, whenever it appears to the   that any person has engaged, is engaged, or is about to engage in any acts or practices constituting a violation of any regulation or order issued pursuant to this  . The relief sought may include a mandatory injunction commanding any person to comply with any such order or regulation and restitution of moneys received in violation of any such order or regulation.

(c) The Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , or the Secretary of the  , respectively, or the duly authorized agent of any of them, shall have authority, for any purpose related to the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, to sign and issue subpoenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant books, papers, and other documents, and to administer oaths, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 206 of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended.

 . 17. Executive  . 11627 of  , Executive Order No.   of  , and Executive Order No. 11632 of  , are hereby superseded.

 . 18. This   shall be effective as of  .
