SECTION 1.  .   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:

(1) The authority of the President   U.S.C. 4111 (b) to prescribe regulations with respect to reductions to be made from payments by the   to employees for travel, subsistence, or other expenses incident to training in a   facility or to attendance at a meeting.

(2) The authority of the President under the last sentence of 5 U.S.C. 5702(a) to establish maximum rates of per diem allowances to the extent that such authority pertains to travel status of employees (as defined in 5 U.S.C.  ) while enroute to, from, or between localities situated outside the 48 contiguous   of   and  .

(3) The authority of the President   U.S.C.   to prescribe regulations necessary for the administration of subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5 of the United States Code (relating to travel and subsistence expenses and mileage allowances).

(4) The authority of the President   U.S.C. 5722(a) to prescribe regulations with respect to the payment of travel expenses and transportation expenses of household goods and personal effects.

(5) The authority of the President   U.S.C. 5723(a) to prescribe regulations with respect to the payment of travel expenses and transportation expenses.

(6) The authority of the President under 5 U.S.C.   to prescribe the regulations provided for therein (relating to travel and transportation expenses and other matters).

(7) The authority of the President   U.S.C.   to prescribe the regulations provided for therein, relating to (i) the availability of appropriations or other funds of agencies for the reimbursement of described expenses of employees for whom the   pays expenses of travel and transportation under 5 U.S.C. 5724(a), (ii) the entitlement of employees to amounts related to their basic pay, and (iii) the allowance, payment, and receipt of expenses and benefits to former employees who are reemployed by nontemporary appointments.

(8) The authority of the President   U.S.C.   to prescribe the regulations provided for therein, relating to (i) the definition of "household goods and personal effects", (ii) allowable storage expenses and related transportation, and (iii) the allowance of non-temporary storage expenses or storage at Government expense in Government-owned facilities (including related transportation and other expenses).

(9) The authority of the President   U.S.C.   to prescribe the regulations provided for therein, relating to the transportation at Government expense of privately owned motor vehicles.

(10) The authority of the President under 5 U.S.C. 5728(a) and (b) to prescribe the regulations provided for therein, relating to the payment by an agency from its appropriations of the expenses of round trip travel of an employee, and the transportation of his immediate family, in described circumstances.

(11) The authority of the President   U.S.C.   (a) and (b) to prescribe the regulations provided for therein, relating to (i) the payment by an agency from its appropriations of the expenses of transporting the immediate family of an employee and of shipping his household goods and personal effects, and (ii) the reimbursement from its appropriations by an agency of an employee for the proper transportation expense of returning his immediate family and household goods and personal effects, both in described circumstances.

(12) The authority of the President   U.S.C. 5731(a) to prescribe the regulations provided for therein, relating to certifications respecting transportation accommodations.

(13) The authority of the President under 5 U.S.C.   (b) to prescribe regulations with respect to the payment of expenses when an employee dies.

(14) The authority of the President under the last sentence of paragraph (c) of section 32 of title III of the Act of  ,  , 50 Stat. 525 (7 U.S.C. 1011(c)), to transfer to  , or Territorial agencies lands acquired by the Secretary of Agriculture under section 32(a) of that Act.

(15) The authority of the President under section 340 of   of  , 75 Stat. 318 (7 U.S.C.  ), in his discretion to transfer to the Secretary of Agriculture any right, interest or title held by   in any lands acquired in the program of national defense and no longer needed for that program, and to determine the suitability of the lands to be transferred, for the purposes referred to in that section: Provided, That the exercise by the Administrator of the authority delegated to him by this paragraph (15) shall require the concurrence of the Secretary of   as to the absence of further need of the lands for the national defense program.

(16) The authority of the President under section 4(k) of  , 55 Stat. 599 (16 U.S.C. 831c (k)), to approve transfers under paragraphs (a) and (c) of that section, other than leases for terms of   and conveyances of property having a value not in excess of $500.

(17) The authority of the President under section 7(b) of   of  , 48 Stat. 63 (16 U.S.C. 831f (b)), to provide for the transfer to   of the use, possession, and control of real or personal property of   deemed by   to be necessary and proper for the purposes of that   as stated in that Act.

(18) The authority of the President under section 1 of the Act of March 4, 1927, c. 505, 44 Stat.   (20 U.S.C. 191), to transfer to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture for the purposes of that Act any land belonging to   within or adjacent to   located along the Anacostia River North of Benning Bridge.

(19) That part of the authority of the President under section 7(a) of the Act of  ,    , 73 Stat. 216, as amended (20 U.S.C. 905(a)), which consists of authority to prescribe regulations relating to storage (including packing, drayage, unpacking, and transportation to and from storage) of household effects and personal possessions.

(20) The authority of   under section 210 (i) of   of  , as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(i)) to prescribe regulations relating to the installation, repair, and replacement of sidewalks.

(21) The authority of the President under section 108 of the Housing Act of  ,  , 63 Stat. 419, as amended (42 U.S.C.  ), to transfer, or cause to be transferred, to the Secretary of   any right, title or interest held by   or any department or agency thereof in any land (including buildings thereon) which is surplus to the needs of the   and which a local public agency certifies will be within the area of a project being planned by it.

 . 2. Department of the  . The Secretary of the   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:

(1) The authority   U.S.C.   (a) to make recommendations to the President concerning the meeting of losses sustained by employees and members of the uniformed services while serving in a foreign country due to appreciation of foreign currency in its relation to the   dollar.

(2) The authority   U.S.C. 5943 (d) to report   to the   on expenditures made under 5 U.S.C. 5943(d).

 . 3.  , and  . The Secretary of  , and   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:

(1) The authority of the President under the first section of the Act entitled "An Act to authorize the operation of stands in Federal buildings by blind persons, to enlarge the economic opportunities of the blind, and for other purposes," approved  , 49 Stat.  , as amended (20 U.S.C. 107), to approve regulations prescribed by the heads of the respective departments and agencies thereunder.

(2) The authority of the Secretary of  , and   under section 2 of the Act of  ,  , 61 Stat. 751, as amended (24 U.S.C. 168a) to fix per diem rates for care of patients in  .

 . 4.  . The Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise his authority under section 12 of the Act of  , 70 Stat. 892 (22 U.S.C.  ) (being authority to prescribe certain maximum rates of per diem in lieu of subsistence (or of similar allowances therefor)), without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President.

 . 5.  . The Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise the authority of the President under the last sentence of section 4 of the Act of  , c. 95, 57 Stat. 81 (24 U.S.C. 34) to prescribe from time to time uniform rates of charges for hospitalization and dispensary services: Provided, That the authority hereby delegated may not be redelegated to any officer in  ,  , or  .

 . 6.  , and  ;  . The following are hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the authority of the President under 10 U.S.C. 1085 to establish uniform rates of reimbursement for inpatient medical or dental care:

(1) The Secretary of  , and   in respect of such care in a facility under his jurisdiction.

(2) The Secretary of   in respect of such care in a facility of an armed force under the jurisdiction of a military department.

 . 7.  . (a) The Administrator of   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise the authority of the President under 10 U.S.C. 1074(b) to approve uniform rates of reimbursement for care provided in facilities operated by the Administrator.

(b) Section 2 of Executive Order No.   of September 6, 1966, as amended by Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby further amended by substituting for the words "allowance of not more than six cents a mile" the following: "allowance, in such amount per mile as the Administrator shall from time to time fix pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 111 as affected by this order".

 . 8.  .   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:

(1) The authority of the President under 5 U.S.C.   (b) to approve regulations prescribed by the head of each agency to carry out 5 U.S.C.   and section 3(a) of the Act of  ,  , 68 Stat. 483, 31 U.S.C.   (relating to installment deductions from pay for indebtedness because of erroneous payment).

(2) The authority of the President   U.S.C.   to prescribe regulations necessary for the uniform administration of subchapter I of chapter 59 of title 5 of the United States Code (relating to uniform allowances).

(3) The authority of the President   U.S.C.   to prescribe regulations establishing rates at which an allowance based on duty (except temporary duty) at remote work sites will be paid and defining and designating the sites, areas and groups of positions to which the rates apply.

 . 9.  . The Director of   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:

(1) The authority of the President under 5 U.S.C. 5911(f) to issue the regulations provided for therein (relating to the provision, occupancy, and availability of quarters and facilities, the determination of rates and charges therefor, and other related matters, as are necessary and appropriate to carry out the provision of section 5911).

(2) The authority of the President under 10 U.S.C. 126 (a) to approve the transfers of balances of appropriations provided for therein.

(3) The authority of the President under section 202 of   of  , 64 Stat. 833 (31 U.S.C. 581c) to approve the transfers of balances of appropriations provided for in subsections (a) and (b) of that section.

(4) The authority of the President under the last sentence of section 11 of the Act of  ,  , 43 Stat. 463 (40 U.S.C. 72), to approve (i) the designation of lands to be acquired by condemnation, (ii) contracts for purchase of lands, and (iii) agreements between   and officials of   and  .

(5) The authority of the President under section 1 of the Act of  ,  ,   Stat.   (40 U.S.C.  ), to approve contracts for acquisition of land subject to limited rights reserved to the grantor and for the acquisition of limited permanent rights in land adjoining park property.

(6) The authority of the President under section 407 (b) of the Act of  , 71 Stat. 556 (  (b), to approve regulations (relating to the rental of substandard housing for members of the uniformed services) prescribed pursuant to that section. The   referred to in section 407(c) of that Act shall furnish the Director of   such reports with respect to matters within the scope of the regulations so approved as he may require and at such times as he may specify.

(7) The authority of the President   U.S.C.   to approve the use, from the appropriations available for printing and binding, of such sums as are necessary for the printing of journals, magazines, periodicals, and similar publications.

(8) The authority of the President under the paragraph appearing under the heading "Expenses of Management Improvement" in title III of the  ,  , and  ,  ,   91-422, 84 Stat. 877, or by any reenactment of the provisions of that paragraph in the same or in a different amount of funds, to allocate to any agency or office of the executive branch (including  ) funds appropriated by that paragraph or by any such reenactment of it. The Director of   shall from time to time report to the President concerning activities carried on by executive agencies and offices with funds allocated under this paragraph and shall, consonant with law, exercise such direction and control with respect to those activities as he shall deem appropriate.

 . 10.  . (a) Unless inappropriate, any reference in this order to any provision of law shall be deemed to include reference thereto as amended from time to time and as affected by Reorganization Plan No. 2 of   (35 F.R. 7959).

(b) Unless inappropriate, any reference in any Executive order to any   order which is superseded by this order, or to any Executive order provision so superseded, shall hereafter be deemed to refer to this order or to the provision of the preceding sections of this order, if any, which corresponds to the superseded provision.

(c) All actions heretofore taken by the President, the Director of  , or the Director of   in respect of the matters affected by the provisions of the preceding sections of this order and in force at the time of the issuance of this order, including any regulations prescribed or approved by any of them in respect of such matters, shall, except as may be inconsistent with the provisions of this order, remain in effect until amended, modified, or revoked pursuant to the authority conferred by this order unless sooner terminated by operation of law.

 . 11. Orders superseded. The following are hereby superseded:

Executive Order No. 10604 of  .

Executive Order No.  .

Executive Order No.  .

Executive Order No. 11290 of July 21, 1966.

Section 3 of Executive Order No.   of August 4, 1966.

(6) To the extent that it is inconsistent with this order, Executive Order No.   of  .

 . 12. Taking effect. This order shall be effective immediately except that paragraphs (1) to (13), inclusive, and paragraph (19), of section 1 hereof shall become effective   after the date of this order.
