SECTION 1. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the head of an agency may make an excepted appointment, to be known as a "veterans readjustment appointment", to any position in the competitive service up to and including GS-5 or the equivalent thereof, of a veteran or disabled veteran as defined in section 2108 (1), (2), of title 5, United States Code, who:

(1) served on active duty in the armed forces of   during the   era;

(2) at the time of his appointment has completed not   of education; and

(3) is found qualified to perform the duties of the position.

(b) Employment under paragraph (a) of this section is authorized only under a training or educational program developed by an agency in accordance with guidelines established by  .

(c) An employee given a veterans readjustment appointment under paragraph (a) of this section shall serve subject to:

(1) the satisfactory performance of assigned duties; and

(2) participation in the training or educational program under which he is appointed.

(d) An employee who does not satisfactorily meet the conditions set forth in paragraph (c) of this section shall be removed in accordance with appropriate procedures.

(e) An employee serving under a veterans readjustment appointment may be promoted, reassigned, or transferred.

(f) An employee who completes the training or educational program and who has satisfactorily completed   of substantially continuous service under a veterans readjustment appointment shall be converted to career-conditional or career employment. An employee converted under this paragraph shall automatically acquire a competitive status.

(g) In selecting an applicant for appointment under this section, an agency shall not discriminate because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or political affiliation.

 . 2. (a) A person eligible for appointment under section 1 of this order may be appointed only within   after his separation from the armed forces, or   following his release from hospitalization or treatment immediately following his separation from the armed forces, or   after involuntary separation without cause from (i) a veterans readjustment appointment or (ii) a transitional appointment, or   after the effective date of this order if he is serving under a transitional appointment.

(b)   may determine the circumstances under which service under a transitional appointment may be deemed service under a veterans readjustment appointment for the purpose of paragraph (f) of section 1 of this order.

 . 3. Any law, Executive order, or regulation which would disqualify an applicant for appointment in the competitive service shall also disqualify a person otherwise eligible for appointment under section 1 of this order.

 . 4. For the purpose of this order:

(a) "agency" means a military department as defined in section 102 of title 5, United States Code, an executive agency (other than  ) as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, and those portions of the legislative and judicial branches of   and of the government of   having positions in the competitive service; and

(b) "  era" means the period beginning  , and ending on such date thereafter as may be determined by Presidential proclamation or concurrent resolution of the  .

 . 5.   shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6. Executive  .   of  , is revoked. Such revocation shall not affect the right of an employee to be converted to career-conditional or career employment if he meets the requirements of section 1 (d) of Executive Order No.   after the effective date of this order.

 . 7. This order is effective   after its date.
