1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Innovation Through Trade Act of
2013
.
2.
Establishment of Chief
Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator
(a)
In
general
Section 141 of the
Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2171
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b), by striking paragraph
(2) and inserting the following:
(2)
There shall be in the Office three Deputy
United States Trade Representatives, one Chief Agricultural Negotiator, and one
Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator, who shall be appointed
by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. As an
exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate, any nomination of a Deputy
United States Trade Representative, the Chief Agricultural Negotiator, or the
Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator submitted to the Senate
for its advice and consent, and referred to a committee, shall be referred to
the Committee on Finance. Each Deputy United States Trade Representative, the
Chief Agricultural Negotiator, and the Chief Innovation and Intellectual
Property Negotiator shall hold office at the pleasure of the President and
shall have the rank of Ambassador.
;
and
(2)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
by moving paragraph (5) two ems to the
left; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
(6)
The principal functions of the Chief
Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator shall be to conduct trade
negotiations and to enforce trade agreements relating to United States
intellectual property and to take appropriate actions to address acts,
policies, and practices of foreign governments that have a significant adverse
impact on the value of United States innovation. The Chief Innovation and
Intellectual Property Negotiator shall be a vigorous advocate on behalf of
United States innovation and intellectual property interests. The Chief
Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator shall perform such other
functions as the United States Trade Representative may
direct.
.
(b)
Compensation
Section 5314
of title 5, United States
Code, is amended by striking
Chief Agricultural Negotiator.
and
inserting the following:
Chief Agricultural Negotiator, Office of the United
States Trade Representative.
Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property
Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade
Representative.
.
(c)
Report
required
Not later than 180
days after the appointment of the first Chief Innovation and Intellectual
Property Negotiator pursuant to paragraph (2) of section 141(b) of the Trade
Act of 1974, as amended by subsection (a), and every 180 days thereafter, the
United States Trade Representative shall submit to the Committee on Finance of
the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives
a report describing in detail—
(1)
enforcement actions taken by the Trade
Representative during the 180 days preceding the submission of the report to
ensure the protection of United States innovation and intellectual property
interests; and
(2)
other actions taken by the Trade
Representative to advance United States innovation and intellectual property
interests.
