1.
Report on wait times for veterans seeking medical appointments and treatment from the Department of
Veterans Affairs and prohibition on closure of medical facilities
(a)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the
Department of Veterans
Affairs shall submit to Congress a report on wait times for veterans
seeking medical appointments and treatment from the Department of Veterans
Affairs.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Information on wait times for veterans throughout the United States in seeking medical appointments
and treatment from the Department.
(B)
A determination by the Inspector General as to whether the wait times for veterans seeking medical
appointments and treatment from the Department have been prolonged by
employees of the Department without a valid medical or administrative
reason.
(b)
Prohibition on closure of medical facilities of the Department
After the date of the enactment of this Act, and before the submittal of the report under
subsection (a), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall not—
(1)
close any medical facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs; or
(2)
use any funds of the Department to prepare any environment impact statement that is
related to the closure of a medical facility of the Department.
(c)
Prolonged wait times without valid reason
(1)
Prohibition on closure of medical facilities of the Department
Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), if, in the report submitted under subsection (a), the
Inspector General determines that wait times
for veterans seeking medical appointments and treatment from the
Department have been prolonged by employees of the Department without a
valid medical or administrative reason, the Secretary shall not close any
medical facility of the Department or use any funds of the Department to
prepare any environment impact statement that is
related to the closure of a medical facility of the Department.
(2)
Exception
The Secretary may close a medical facility of the Department or use funds of the Department to
prepare an environmental impact statement related to the closure of a
medical facility of the Department if, not later than 180 days before such
closure or use of funds, the Secretary determines and certifies to
Congress that the closure of such medical facility will not do any of the
following:
(A)
Increase the wait times for veterans in the catchment area of such medical facility in seeking
medical
appointments and treatment from such medical facility.
(B)
Decrease the quality of care provided to such veterans.
(C)
Impede the access of such veterans to specialized health care services.
(D)
Impede the access of such veterans to residential rehabilitation treatment programs of the
Department and
other inpatient care.
(E)
Increase the distance required to be traveled by such veterans to receive inpatient and outpatient
care.
(F)
Impede the access of such veterans that are members of Indian tribes (as that term is defined in
section 4
of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C.
450b)) to medical care.
(3)
Termination
The prohibition under paragraph (1) shall terminate on the date on which the Inspector General
determines and certifies to Congress that wait times
for veterans seeking medical appointments and treatment from the
Department are not being prolonged by employees of the Department without
a
valid medical or administrative reason.
(d)
Environmental impact statement defined
In this section, the term
environmental impact statement
means the detailed statement of environmental impacts of a project required to be prepared
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.).
