1.
Prohibiting tax status from being assigned based on political beliefs and activities
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The income tax system of the United States relies on voluntary compliance by taxpayers.
(2)
The filing of tax returns and other tax-related documents with the Internal Revenue Service often
requires the submission of information to the Federal Government that
taxpayers would otherwise consider private.
(3)
To ensure widespread voluntary compliance by taxpayers, the American public must have absolute
trust that the Internal Revenue Service is acting in a non-partisan
manner.
(4)
Taxpayers must be ensured that their treatment by the Internal Revenue Service will not be based on
race, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, or
political creed, including their support for or opposition to any
government policies.
(5)
The confidence of taxpayers in the system of taxation in the United States is compromised when the
Internal Revenue Service is required to assign tax treatment based on
political beliefs or activities.
(6)
The targeting of certain individuals and groups by the Internal Revenue Service based on their
political beliefs and activities must be stopped, and to ensure the
integrity of the income tax system of the United States, the Internal
Revenue Service should be removed from evaluating the political activities
of any individuals or organizations.
(b)
Political organizations
Paragraph (1) of
section 527(e)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
(1)
Political organization
The term
political organization
means a party, committee, association, fund, or other organization (whether or not incorporated)—
(A)
which is registered as a political committee with the Federal Election Commission,
(B)
has been determined, pursuant to proceedings under section 309 of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (
2 U.S.C. 437g
) or by a court of law, to be a political committee,
as defined under section 301(4) of such Act (
2 U.S.C. 431(4)
), or
(C)
which is organized and operated primarily for the purposes of directly or indirectly accepting
contributions or making expenditures, or both, for influencing or
attempting to influence the selection, nomination, election, or
appointment of any individual to any State or local public office and—
(i)
is not required to register with the Federal Election Commission, and
(ii)
is required to register with the appropriate State agency as a political committee.
.
(c)
Tax-Exempt organizations
Section 501 of such Code is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (s) as subsection (t), and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (r) the following new subsection:
(s)
Promotion of social welfare
(1)
In general
For purposes of paragraph (4)(A) of subsection (c), the term
promotion of social welfare
shall include—
(A)
any political activity in furtherance of American democracy, provided that such activities do not
exceed 50 percent of the organization's total activities (not including
activities performed on a volunteer basis),
(B)
any activities for the purpose of educating individuals on issues of public importance and on the
behavior of public officials, including participation in ballot
initiatives and referenda, and
(C)
any activity described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and (v) of section 301(9)(B) of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (
2 U.S.C. 431(9)(B)
).
(2)
Political activity in furtherance of American democracy
For purposes of this subsection, the term
political activity in furtherance of American democracy
shall include any activity described in subparagraph (A) of section 301(9) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (
2 U.S.C. 431(9)
).
(3)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to exempt an organization from satisfying any
applicable requirements for filing as a political committee pursuant to
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (
2 U.S.C. 431 et seq.
).
.
