1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Enhance Labeling, Accessing, and Branding of Electronic Licenses Act of 2014
or the
E-LABEL Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Federal Communications Commission (referred to in this section as the
Commission
) first standardized physical labels for licensed products such as computers,
phones, and other electronic devices in 1973, and the Commission has
continually
refined physical label requirements over time.
(2)
As devices become smaller, compliance with physical label requirements can become more difficult
and
costly.
(3)
Many manufacturers and consumers of licensed devices in the United States would prefer to have the
option to provide or receive
important Commission labeling information digitally on the screen of the
device, at the
discretion of the user.
(4)
An electronic labeling option would give flexibility to manufacturers
in meeting labeling requirements.
3.
Authorization for Federal Communications Commission to allow electronic labeling
Title VII of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 601 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
720.
Optional electronic labeling of communications equipment
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
electronic labeling
means displaying required labeling and regulatory information electronically; and
(2)
the term
radiofrequency device with display
means any equipment or device that—
(A)
is required under regulations of the Commission to be authorized by the Commission before the
equipment or
device may be marketed or sold within the United States; and
(B)
has the capability to digitally display required labeling and regulatory information.
(b)
Requirement To promulgate regulations for electronic labeling
Not later than 9 months after the date of enactment of the
Enhance Labeling, Accessing, and Branding of Electronic Licenses Act of 2014
, the Commission shall promulgate regulations or take other appropriate action, as necessary, to
allow manufacturers of radiofrequency devices with display the option to
use electronic
labeling for the equipment in place of affixing physical
labels to the equipment.
.
4.
Savings clause
The amendment made by section 3 shall not be construed to affect the authority of the Federal
Communications Commission under section 302 of the Communications Act of
1934 (
47 U.S.C. 302a
) to provide for electronic labeling of devices.
