1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Helping Innovation and Reviving Entrepreneurship Act of 2014
or the
HIRE Act
.
2.
New technologies and services
(a)
In general
Section 7 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 157
) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
(c)
Office of Strategic Planning and Policy Analysis
(1)
Definition
In this subsection, the term
Office
means the Office of Strategic Planning and Policy Analysis of the Commission.
(2)
Duties relating to new technologies and services
The Office shall—
(A)
take steps to ensure that the Commission complies with each deadline under subsection (b);
(B)
review each regulation proposed by the Commission and analyze the impact of the regulation on
innovation, economic growth, and job creation; and
(C)
perform any other duty assigned by the Commission.
(3)
Staffing
(A)
Consultation with staff
The Office shall consult with staff from the following offices and
bureaus of the Commission as necessary to carry out the duties of the
Office under paragraph (2):
(i)
The Office of Engineering and Technology.
(ii)
The Office of Communications Business Opportunities.
(iii)
Any other office or bureau the Office determines appropriate.
(B)
No increase in number of full-time employees
Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall be construed to authorize the Commission to increase the total
full-time equivalent number of employees of the
Commission to provide consultation to the Office.
(d)
Report on deadlines
If the Commission fails to comply with a deadline under subsection (b) with respect to a petition,
application, or proceeding, not later than 7 days after the deadline and
every 14 days thereafter until the Commission complies with the deadline,
the Commission shall publish and
submit to the chairperson and ranking member of the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the chairperson and
ranking member of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate a letter that—
(1)
identifies the petition, application, or proceeding;
(2)
specifies the deadline; and
(3)
describes the reason for the delay.
.
(b)
Effective date; applicability; no additional appropriations
(1)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date
of
enactment of this Act.
(2)
Applicability
(A)
In general
The requirements under subsections (c) and (d) of section 7 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 157), as added by subsection (a),
shall apply with respect to any petition or application that is filed,
any proceeding that is initiated, and any regulation that is proposed, on
or after the effective date described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(B)
Pending petitions, applications, and proceedings
The requirements under subsections (c) and (d) of section 7 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 157), as added by subsection (a),
shall apply with respect to any petition, application, or proceeding that
is pending on the effective date described in paragraph (1) of this
subsection as if the petition or application had
been filed, or the proceeding had been initiated, on that date.
(3)
No additional appropriations authorized
Nothing in this section or the amendment made by this section shall be construed to increase the
amount of appropriations that are
authorized to be appropriated to the Federal Communications Commission for
any fiscal year.
