1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Eric Williams Correctional Officer Protection Act of 2014
.
2.
Officers and employees of the Bureau of Prisons authorized to carry oleoresin capsicum spray
(a)
In general
Chapter 303 of part III of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
4049.
Officers and employees of the Bureau of Prisons authorized to carry oleoresin capsicum spray
(a)
In general
The Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall issue, on a routine basis, oleoresin capsicum spray to—
(1)
any officer or employee of the Bureau of Prisons who—
(A)
is employed in a prison that is not a minimum or low security prison; and
(B)
may respond to an emergency situation in such a prison; and
(2)
to such additional officers and employees of prisons as the
Director determines appropriate, in accordance with this section.
(b)
Training requirement
(1)
In general
In order for an officer or employee of the Bureau of Prisons, including a correctional officer, to
be eligible to receive and carry oleoresin capsicum spray pursuant to this
section, the officer or employee shall complete a training course before
being issued such spray, and annually thereafter, on the use of oleoresin
capsicum spray.
(2)
Transferability of training
An officer or employee of the Bureau of Prisons who completes a training course pursuant to
paragraph (1)
and subsequently transfers to employment at a different prison, shall not
be required to complete an additional training course solely due such
transfer.
(3)
Training conducted during regular employment
An officer or employee of the Bureau of Prisons who completes a training course required under
paragraph
(1) shall do so during the course of that officer or employee’s regular
employment, and shall be compensated at the same rate that the officer or
employee would be compensated for conducting the officer or employee’s
regular duties.
(c)
Use of oleoresin capsicum spray
Officers and employees of the Bureau of Prisons issued oleoresin capsicum spray pursuant to
subsection (a) may use such spray to reduce acts of violence—
(1)
committed by prisoners against themselves, other prisoners, prison visitors, and officers and
employees of the Bureau of Prisons; and
(2)
committed by prison visitors against themselves, prisoners, other visitors, and officers and
employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for chapter 303 of part III of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section 4048 the following:
4049. Officers and employees of the Bureau of Prisons authorized to carry oleoresin capsicum spray.
.
3.
GAO Report
Not later than the date that is 3 years after the date on which the Director of the Bureau of
Prisons begins to issue oleoresin capsicum spray to officers and employees
of the Bureau of Prisons pursuant to
section 4049
of title 18, United
States Code, (as added by this Act), the
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report
that includes the following:
(1)
An evaluation of the effectiveness of issuing oleoresin capsicum spray to officers and employees of
the Bureau of Prisons in prisons that are not minimum or low security
prisons on—
(A)
reducing crime in such prisons; and
(B)
reducing acts of violence committed by prisoners against themselves, other prisoners, prison
visitors, and officers and employees of the Bureau of Prisons in such
prisons.
(2)
An evaluation of the advisability of issuing oleoresin capsicum spray to officers and employees of
the Bureau of
Prisons in prisons that are minimum or low security prisons, including—
(A)
the effectiveness that issuing such spray in such prisons would have on reducing acts of violence
committed by prisoners against themselves, other prisoners, prison
visitors, and officers and employees of the Bureau of Prisons in such
prisons; and
(B)
the cost of issuing such spray in such prisons.
(3)
Recommendations to improve the safety of officers and employees of the Bureau of Prisons in
prisons.
