1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preserving Public Access to Cape
Hatteras Beaches Act
.
2.
Reinstatement of
Interim Management Strategy
(a)
Management
After the date of the enactment of this
Act, Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area shall be managed in
accordance with the Interim Protected Species Management Strategy/Environmental
Assessment issued by the National Park Service on June 13, 2007, for the Cape
Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area, North Carolina, unless the
Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
Secretary
) issues a new final rule that meets the requirements
set forth in section 3.
(b)
Restrictions
The Secretary shall not impose any
additional restrictions on pedestrian or motorized vehicular access to any
portion of Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area for species
protection beyond those in the Interim Management Strategy, other than as
specifically authorized pursuant to section 3.
3.
Additional
restrictions on access to Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area for
species protection
(a)
In
general
If, based on
peer-reviewed science and after public comment, the Secretary determines that
additional restrictions on access to a portion of the Cape Hatteras National
Seashore Recreational Area are necessary to protect species listed as
endangered under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.
),
the Secretary may only restrict, by limitation, closure, buffer, or otherwise,
pedestrian and motorized vehicular access for recreational activities for the
shortest possible time and on the smallest possible portions of the Cape
Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area.
(b)
Limitation on
restrictions
Restrictions
imposed under this section for protection of species listed as endangered under
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.
) shall not be
greater than the restrictions in effect for that species at any other National
Seashore.
(c)
Corridors around
closures
To the maximum
extent possible, the Secretary shall designate pedestrian and vehicular
corridors of minimal distance on the beach or interdunal area around closures
implemented under this section to allow access to areas not closed.
4.
Inapplicability
of final rule and consent degree
(a)
Final
rule
The final rule titled
Special Regulations, Areas of the National Park System, Cape Hatteras
National Seashore—Off-Road Vehicle Management
(77 Fed. Reg. 3123–3144)
shall have no force or effect after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(b)
Consent
decree
The April 30, 2008, consent decree filed in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina regarding
off-road vehicle use at Cape Hatteras National Seashore in North Carolina shall
not apply after the date of the enactment of this Act.
