119 HRES 442 IH: Recognizing the importance of California’s public higher education systems and reaffirming the United States commitment to supporting these institutions.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-05-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 442
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 23, 2025
Mr. Bera
(for himself,
Mr. Obernolte
,
Mr. Carbajal
,
Mr. Garamendi
,
Mr. Takano
,
Ms. Simon
,
Mr. Panetta
,
Ms. Barragán
,
Mr. Harder of California
,
Ms. Friedman
,
Ms. Sánchez
,
Mr. DeSaulnier
,
Mr. Mullin
,
Mr. Min
,
Mr. Tran
,
Mr. Lieu
,
Mrs. Torres of California
,
Ms. Matsui
, and
Mr. Gomez
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and Workforce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the importance of California’s public higher education
systems and reaffirming the United States commitment to supporting these
institutions.
Whereas the California Master Plan for Higher Education, enacted in 1960, outlined the framework of the roles, missions, and access policies for the three systems of public higher education in California—the University of California, the California State University, and the California Community Colleges;
Whereas the University of California focuses on research and delivering undergraduate, graduate, and professional education and providing highly skilled graduates to the workforce;
Whereas the California State University focuses on teaching and delivering undergraduate, master’s level, and select doctoral degrees for careers tailored to the regional economic needs of the university and industry needs of the State;
Whereas the California Community Colleges are open to all Californians, offer the most affordable education, act as a pipeline for transferring to the other two systems, and are the top provider of vocational and workforce education in fields ranging from automotive repair to zoology;
Whereas the size and reach of public higher education students in California is significant and extensive;
Whereas the University of California enrolled a record high of 299,407 students in Fall 2024 semester across its 10 campuses and has more than 2,000,000 alumni living and working around the world;
Whereas the California State University is the country’s largest four-year public university system with more than 460,000 students across 23 universities in every region of California and a global network of more than 4,000,000 alumni;
Whereas the California Community Colleges remain the largest system of higher education in the country with 2,000,000 students and a top employer in the State with 88,000 faculty and staff across 116 colleges;
Whereas California’s systems of public higher education’s affordability and accessibility provide students from low-income and underrepresented communities pathways to upward economic mobility and success;
Whereas more than 70 percent of undergraduates from the University of California and the California State University receive financial aid, and more than half of in-State bachelor’s degree recipients from both systems graduate with no student loan debt;
Whereas more than one-third of low-income students from the University of California achieve annual incomes that place them in the top 20 percent, doubling their incomes within 10 years of graduation;
Whereas the California State University educates one of the most diverse student bodies in the country with nearly half of their undergraduates receiving the Pell grant, more than half of their students hailing from traditionally underrepresented backgrounds, and more than a quarter of their undergraduates being first-generation college students;
Whereas approximately 65 percent of California community college students were classified as Perkins Economically Disadvantaged and more than one-third identified as first-generation in their family to attend college;
Whereas the value of a degree from one of California’s public higher education systems is considerable for graduates and the State;
Whereas the research, development, and innovation of the University of California results in technological progress that advances the State and society, including the establishment of the internet, first legal hydrogen fuel cell vehicle, cochlear implants, and numerous software and biotechnology firms in the State;
Whereas the University of California generates $12,000,000,000 in Federal, State, and local taxes and $82,000,000,000 in economic activity per year, and supports 529,000 jobs through activities and spending, ranking as the third largest employer in California;
Whereas the California State University generates $26,900,000,000 in industry activity, employs more than 63,000 faculty and staff, helps create 209,400 jobs annually, and offers more than 4,000 degree programs that align with the State’s workforce demands;
Whereas the California Community Colleges add $170,300,000,000 in income to the State’s economy, equal to 5 percent of the State’s total gross State product, and support 1,700,000 jobs annually; and
Whereas the public higher education systems in California are a critical and substantial component to fostering economic growth in the State: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the importance of California’s public higher education systems in driving the economy of California and contributing to the status of the United States as a world-leading economy;
(2)
acknowledges the substantial work done by California’s Public Higher Education Systems in providing students from traditionally underserved and low-income communities opportunities for educational attainment, economic growth, and personal and professional development at their institutions;
(3)
commends the inventions and achievements of students from California’s public colleges in advancing technological, educational, and social progress; and
(4)
reaffirms unwavering commitment to supporting California’s public higher education systems—the University of California, the California State University, and the California Community Colleges.
