119 HRES 650 IH: Condemning the unconstitutional, racist congressional redistricting in Texas, ordered by President Donald J. Trump.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-08-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 650
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
August 15, 2025
Mr. Green of Texas
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Condemning the unconstitutional, racist congressional redistricting in Texas, ordered by President Donald J. Trump.
Whereas this resolution may be cited as the
Original Resolution Condemning the Racist Mid-Decade Texas Redistricting Ordered by President Donald J. Trump
;
Whereas, on July 7, 2025, the Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice, Harmeet Dhillon, penned a communique to Texas Governor Greg Abbott and Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton declaring
the Congressional Districts at issue are nothing more than vestiges of an unconstitutionally racially-based gerrymandering past, which must be abandoned, and must now be corrected by Texas
;
Whereas the communique went on to state:
If the state of Texas fails to rectify the racial gerrymandering of TXГўВҖВ“09, TXГўВҖВ“18, TXГўВҖВ“29, and TXГўВҖВ“33, the Attorney General reserves the right to seek legal action against the state, including without limitation under the 14th Amendment.
;
Whereas, on July 21, 2025, the Texas Attorney General responded,
The evidence at that trial was clear and unequivocal: the Texas legislature did not pass race-based electoral districts
;
Whereas Texas State Senator Joan Huffman, who chaired the Senate Redistricting Committee, testified under oath that she drew Texas districts in a race-blind manner;
Whereas the Department of JusticeГўВҖВҷs focus on racial gerrymandering is nothing but a thin veneer designed to distract from the DepartmentГўВҖВҷs true goal of further distorting TexasГўВҖВҷ already-gerrymandered map to maintain Republican control over the House of Representatives;
Whereas, according to the Brennan Center, the 2020 Texas congressional map resulted in Democrats holding
13 of 38 seats (34 percent), despite getting between 46 and 48 percent of the vote in recent statewide federal elections
, indicating that Republicans already disproportionately hold as many as 5 additional congressional seats due to gerrymandering;
Whereas Texas has a shameful history of unconstitutional racial discrimination against people of color, especially regarding voting rights; and
Whereas, given TexasГўВҖВҷ disgraceful, racist, and unconstitutional history of voting rights violations against people of color, the targeting for elimination of districts wherein people of color elect people of color is consistent with the well-documented history of racist voting rights discrimination in Texas: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives unequivocally condemns the unconstitutional, racist congressional redistricting in Texas, ordered by President Donald J. Trump.
