119 HRES 649 IH: Expressing support for the recognition of August 17 through August 23, 2025, as “Warehouse Worker Recognition Week”, the national event celebrating the workers in the logistics industry.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-08-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 649
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
August 12, 2025
Mrs. Torres of California
(for herself,
Mr. Takano
,
Ms. Barragán
,
Ms. Chu
,
Ms. Garcia of Texas
,
Mr. Lynch
,
Mr. Tonko
, and
Ms. Meng
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and Workforce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the recognition of August 17 through August 23, 2025, as
Warehouse Worker Recognition Week
, the national event celebrating the workers in the logistics industry.
Whereas warehouse workers are important in supporting and developing the United States economy;
Whereas, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data, the total number of warehousing and storage workers employed is over 1,800,000;
Whereas tariffs and supply chain disruptions have impacted the logistics industry;
Whereas warehouse workers work around the clock, with little rest;
Whereas warehouse workers in the summer months work in dangerously hot conditions, and warehouses can reach up to 90 degrees Fahrenheit;
Whereas warehouses in the Inland Empire manage distribution for most goods traveling through the Los Angeles and Long Beach ports, which receive 40 percent of the Nation’s imports; and
Whereas warehouse workers help individuals and communities through—
(1)
assisting in the supply chain;
(2)
helping to transport goods; and
(3)
packing, processing, and moving inventory: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals of
Warehouse Worker Recognition Week
;
(2)
encourages increased awareness of the contributions of warehouse workers;
(3)
acknowledges that warehouse workers are front line workers; and
(4)
recommits to work together to reduce injuries and support the needs of these front line workers.
