119 HRES 233 IH: Supporting the designation of April 2025 as “National Native Plant Month”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-03-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 233
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 21, 2025
Mr. Case
(for himself,
Mr. Neguse
,
Mr. Joyce of Ohio
,
Mr. Soto
,
Mr. Moylan
, and
Ms. Tokuda
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Natural Resources
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of April 2025 as
National Native Plant Month
.
Whereas native plants are indigenous species that have evolved alongside native wildlife and occur naturally in a particular geographic region, ecosystem, and habitat;
Whereas there are more than 17,000 native plant species in the United States, which include large shade trees, understory trees, shrubs, perennials, vines, grasses, and wildflowers;
Whereas native plants are essential for healthy, diverse, and sustainable ecosystems and are critical for cleaning air, filtering water, and stabilizing soils;
Whereas native plants are well-adapted to specific soils, temperatures, precipitation, and environmental conditions, making them the best option for conserving and protecting our environment, and adapting to its changes;
Whereas native plants provide shelter, as well as nectar, pollen, seeds, and foliage that serve as food for native butterflies, caterpillars, birds, bees, and other wildlife in ways that non-native plants cannot;
Whereas more than 200 of the native plant species in the United States are estimated to have been lost since the early 19th century;
Whereas habitat loss and degradation, extreme weather events, and invasive species have contributed to the decline of native plants in the United States; and
Whereas native plants are essential components of resilient ecosystems and our natural heritage: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
National Native Plant Month
; and
(2)
recognizes the benefits of native plants to the environment and the economy of the United States.
