119 HRES 997 IH: Enabling the House of Representatives to be responsive to its membership.
U.S. House of Representatives
2026-01-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 997
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 14, 2026
Mr. McGovern
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
, and in addition to the Committees on
Rules
, and
Ethics
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Enabling the House of Representatives to be responsive to its membership.
I
101.
Code of Official Conduct
In rule XXIII of the Rules of the House of Representatives, strike clause 2 and insert the following:
2.
A Member, Delegate, Resident Commissioner, officer, or employee of the House shall adhere to the spirit and the letter of the Rules of the House and to the rules of duly constituted committees thereof.
.
102.
Suspension of the rules
In rule XV of the Rules of the House of Representatives, strike clause 1 and insert the following:
1.
(a)
A rule may not be suspended except by a vote of two-thirds of the Members voting, a quorum being present. The Speaker may not entertain a motion that the House suspend the rules except on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays and during the last six days of a session of Congress.
(b)
Pending a motion that the House suspend the rules, the Speaker may entertain one motion that the House adjourn but may not entertain any other motion until the vote is taken on the suspension.
(c)
A motion that the House suspend the rules is debatable for 40 minutes, one-half in favor of the motion and one-half in opposition thereto.
.
II
201.
Placement of U.S. time zone clocks in House chamber
(a)
Responsibilities of Clerk
The Clerk of the House of Representatives shall place clocks displaying each United States time zone in real time in the House Chamber in clear view of the Members.
(b)
Regulations
The Clerk shall carry out this resolution in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Committee on House Administration.
