1.
Permanent resident status for Melecio Andazola-Morales
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 201 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act
(
8 U.S.C. 1151
), Melecio Andazola-Morales shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1154
) or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident.
(b)
Adjustment of status
If Melecio Andazola-Morales enters the United States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), he shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act
(
8 U.S.C. 1255
) as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Deadline for application and payment of Fees
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Reduction of immigrant visa number
Upon the granting of an immigrant visa or permanent residence to Melecio Andazola-Morales, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the alien’s birth under section 203(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act
(
8 U.S.C. 1153(a)
) or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the alien’s birth under section 202(e) of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1152(e)
).
(e)
Denial of preferential immigration treatment for certain relatives
The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Melecio Andazola-Morales shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any right, privilege, or status under the
Immigration and Nationality Act
(
8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.).
