1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Water Affordability Act
.
2.
Low-income sewer and drinking water assistance pilot program
Title I of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
124.
Low-income sewer and drinking water assistance pilot program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means a municipality, or a public entity that owns or operates a public water system (as defined in section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300f
)), that is affected by a consent decree relating to compliance with this Act.
(2)
Environmentally at-risk household
The term
environmentally at-risk household
means—
(A)
a household located within 5 miles of an environmentally hazardous site, including waste disposal, manufacturing, and energy production facilities; and
(B)
as indicated by the EJScreen tool of the Environmental Protection Agency, a household located in an area with—
(i)
a high minority population; and
(ii)
a high environmental indicator.
(3)
Household
The term
household
means any individual or group of individuals who are living together as 1 economic unit.
(4)
Low-income household
The term
low-income household
means a household—
(A)
in which one or more individuals are receiving—
(i)
assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.);
(ii)
supplemental security income payments under title XVI of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.);
(iii)
supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.); or
(iv)
payments under—
(I)
section 1315, 1521, 1541, or 1542 of title 38, United States Code; or
(II)
section 306 of the Veterans' and Survivors' Pension Improvement Act of 1978 (
38 U.S.C. 1521
note;
Public Law 95–588
); or
(B)
that has an income that, as determined by the State in which the household is located, does not exceed the greater of—
(i)
an amount equal to 150 percent of the poverty level for that State; and
(ii)
an amount equal to 60 percent of the median income for that State.
(5)
Sanitation services
The term
sanitation services
has the meaning given the term in section 113(g).
(b)
Establishment of pilot program
(1)
In general
The Administrator shall establish a pilot program to provide grants to not less than 10 eligible entities to assist low-income households and environmentally at-risk households in maintaining access to sanitation services and drinking water.
(2)
Lower income limit
For purposes of the pilot program under this section, an eligible entity may adopt an income limit that is lower than the limit described in subsection (a)(4)(B), except that the eligible entity may not exclude a household from eligibility in a fiscal year solely on the basis of household income if that income is less than 110 percent of the poverty level for the State.
(c)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the pilot program under this section.
.
