1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Making Available Information Now to Strengthen Trust and Resilience and Enhance Enterprise Technology Cybersecurity Act of 2017
or the
MAIN STREET Cybersecurity Act of 2017
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
Small businesses play a vital role in the economy of the United States, accounting for 54 percent of all United States sales and 55 percent of jobs in the United States.
(2)
Attacks targeting small and medium businesses account for a high percentage of cyberattacks in the United States. Sixty percent of small businesses that suffer a cyberattack are out of business within 6 months, according to the National Cyber Security Alliance.
(3)
The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
15 U.S.C. 7421
et seq.) calls on the National Institute of Standards and Technology to facilitate and support a voluntary public-private partnership to reduce cybersecurity risks to critical infrastructure. Such a partnership continues to play a key role in improving the cyber resilience of the United States and making cyberspace safer.
(4)
There is a need to develop simplified resources that are consistent with the partnership described in paragraph (3) that improves its use by small businesses.
3.
Improving cybersecurity of small businesses
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
(2)
Resources
The term
resources
means guidelines, tools, best practices, standards, methodologies, and other ways of providing information.
(3)
Small business concern
The term
small business concern
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
).
(b)
Small business cybersecurity
Section 2(e)(1)(A) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (
15 U.S.C. 272(e)(1)(A)
) is amended—
(1)
in clause (vii), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating clause (viii) as clause (ix); and
(3)
by inserting after clause (vii) the following:
(viii)
consider small business concerns (as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
)); and
.
(c)
Dissemination of resources for small businesses
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director, in carrying out section 2(e)(1)(A)(viii) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act, as added by subsection (b) of this Act, in consultation with the heads of such other Federal agencies as the Director considers appropriate, shall disseminate clear and concise resources for small business concerns to help reduce their cybersecurity risks.
(2)
Requirements
The Director shall ensure that the resources disseminated pursuant to paragraph (1)—
(A)
are effective and usable by small business concerns;
(B)
vary with the nature and size of the implementing small business concern, and the nature and sensitivity of the data collected or stored on the information systems or devices of the implementing small business concern;
(C)
include elements, such as simple, basic controls, to assist small business concerns in defending against common cybersecurity risks;
(D)
are technology-neutral and can be implemented using technologies that are commercial and off-the-shelf; and
(E)
are based on international standards to the extent possible, and are consistent with the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (
15 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.).
(3)
National cybersecurity awareness and education program
The Director shall ensure that the resources disseminated under paragraph (1) are consistent with the efforts of the Director under section 401 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
15 U.S.C. 7451
).
(4)
Small business development center cyber strategy
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Director, to the extent practicable, shall consider any methods included in the Small Business Development Center Cyber Strategy developed under section 1841(a)(3)(B) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
).
(5)
Voluntary resources
The use of the resources disseminated under paragraph (1) shall be considered voluntary.
(6)
Updates
The Director shall review and, if necessary, update the resources disseminated under paragraph (1).
(7)
Public availability
The Director and such heads of other Federal agencies as the Director considers appropriate shall each make prominently available to the public on the Director's or head's Internet website, as the case may be, information about the resources disseminated under paragraph (1). The Director and the heads shall each ensure that the information they respectively make prominently available is consistent, clear, and concise.
(d)
Consistency of resources published by Federal agencies
If a Federal agency publishes resources to help small business concerns reduce their cybersecurity risks, the head of such Federal agency, to the degree practicable, shall make such resources consistent with the resources disseminated under subsection (c)(1).
(e)
Other Federal cybersecurity requirements
Nothing in this section may be construed to supersede, alter, or otherwise affect any cybersecurity requirements applicable to Federal agencies.
