1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Oversight of National Security Act of 2017
.
2.
Modification of membership requirements for National Security Council and Cabinet-Level Policy
Forum
(a)
National Security Council
Section 101(c) of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3021(c)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking
The Council
and inserting
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Council
;
(B)
by inserting
the Director of National Intelligence and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
after
the Secretary of Energy,
; and
(C)
by striking
and such other officers of the United States Government as the President may designate.
and inserting
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
; and
(2)
by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
(2)
Limitation on membership and participation
(A)
Approval by Congress
The President may not designate as a member or attendee a covered individual under paragraph (1) (excluding the National Security Advisor and Deputies, the Homeland Security Advisor and Deputies, the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff, the Counsel to the President, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the Vice President for National Security) unless a joint resolution or bill is enacted approving of the designation of the covered individual by the President.
(B)
Covered individual defined
In this paragraph, the term
covered individual
means an individual in a position that is not subject to confirmation by the Senate.
.
3.
Interagency forum for policy consideration and decisionmaking
(a)
Creation
There is a cabinet-level interagency forum for policy consideration and decisionmaking to support the National Security Council.
(b)
Composition
Except as provided in subsection (c), the composition of the interagency forum for policy consideration and decisionmaking to support the National Security Council shall reflect the membership of the National Security Council and any member of the executive branch who is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, as determined by the President.
(c)
Exceptions
(1)
In general
Any exception to the requirement of subsection (b) shall only be permitted for a one-time decisionmaking action.
(2)
Notification to Congress
The President shall submit to Congress a notification of any exercise of an exception permitted by this subsection not later than 24 hours after the execution of such exception.
