1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veteran Wellness Act
.
2.
Pilot program on transformation of veterans services organizations facilities into veteran health and wellness centers
(a)
Pilot program required
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a pilot program under which the Secretary makes grants to nonprofit veterans services organizations recognized by the Secretary for the representation of veterans under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code (in this section referred to as
VSOs
), to upgrade, through construction and repair, community facilities of VSOs into health and wellness centers and to promote and expand complementary and integrative wellness programs.
(2)
Use of amounts
The recipient of a grant under this section shall use the grant amounts—
(A)
to carry out the repair of a facility owned by the recipient or to construct a facility on property owned by the recipient; or
(B)
to provide complementary and integrative medicine or wellness programs, and to pay the costs of childcare during such programs, to veterans and family members, as such term is defined in section 1712A(h)(3) of title 38, United States Code.
(3)
Limitation on use of amounts
The recipient of a grant under this section may not use the grant amounts to purchase real estate or to carry out repair of facilities leased by the recipient or to construct facilities on property leased by the recipient.
(4)
Facility operation
As a condition of the receipt of a grant under this section, a VSO shall agree to carry out the operation and maintenance of the facility that is repaired or constructed using grant amounts for the three-year period beginning on the date of the completion of the repair or construction.
(b)
Duration of pilot program
The pilot program shall be carried out during the two-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of the pilot program.
(c)
Locations
(1)
In general
In selecting the recipients of grants under this section, the Secretary shall ensure that the grant recipients use grant amounts to construct or repair facilities located in not fewer than ten different geographic locations.
(2)
Priority
The Secretary shall give priority in the selection of locations under paragraph (1) to locations in economically depressed areas that are not in close proximity to medical centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(d)
Eligibility
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a VSO shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form and in such manner as the Secretary may require.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Periodic reports
(A)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter for the duration of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the pilot program.
(B)
Report elements
Each report required by subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
(i)
The findings and conclusions of the Secretary with respect to the pilot program during the 180-day period covered by the report.
(ii)
An assessment of the benefits of the pilot program to veterans and family members of veterans during the 180-day period covered by the report.
(2)
Final report
Not later than 180 days after the conclusion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report detailing the recommendations of the Secretary as to the advisability of continuing or expanding the pilot program.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
