1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Our Military Installations from Recurrent Floods Act of 2018
.
2.
Flood risk disclosure for military construction
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall modify Department of Defense Form 1391 to require, with respect to any proposed major or minor military construction project requiring congressional notification or approval, disclosure whether a proposed project will be sited within or partially within a 100-year floodplain, according to the most recent available Federal Emergency Management Agency flood hazard data.
(b)
Delineation of floodplain
To the extent that Federal Emergency Management Agency flood hazard data are not available for a proposed major or minor military construction site, the Secretary concerned shall establish a process for delineating the 100-year floodplain using risk analysis that is consistent with the standards used to inform Federal flood risk assessments.
(c)
Reporting requirements
For proposed projects that are to be sited within or partially within a 100-year floodplain, the Secretary concerned shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report with the following:
(1)
An assessment of flood vulnerability for the proposed project.
(2)
Any information concerning alternative construction sites that were considered, and an explanation of why those sites do not satisfy mission requirements.
(3)
A description of planned flood mitigation measures.
(d)
Minimum flood mitigation requirements
When mitigating the flood risk of a major or minor military construction project within or partially within the 100-year floodplain, the Secretary concerned shall require any mitigation plan to assume an additional—
(1)
2 feet above the base flood elevation for non-mission critical buildings, as determined by the Secretary; and
(2)
3 feet above the base flood elevation for mission-critical buildings, as determined by the Secretary.
(e)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
congressional defense committees
and
Secretary concerned
have the meaning given the terms in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.
