1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Amendments Act of 2017
.
2.
References to the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998
Except as otherwise expressly provided, wherever in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision of the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 (
33 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.).
3.
Inter-Agency Task Force
Section 603(a) (
33 U.S.C. 4001(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (12), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (13) as paragraph (14); and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (12) the following:
(13)
the Army Corps of Engineers; and
.
4.
Scientific assessments of freshwater harmful algal blooms
Section 603 (
33 U.S.C. 4001
) is amended—
(1)
by striking subsection (f);
(2)
by redesignating subsections (g), (h), (i), and (j) as subsections (f), (g), (h), and (i), respectively; and
(3)
in subsection (g), as redesignated—
(A)
in the heading, by inserting
marine and freshwater
after
assessments of
; and
(B)
in paragraph (1)—
(i)
by striking the second sentence; and
(ii)
by amending the third sentence to read as follows:
Each assessment shall examine both marine and freshwater harmful algal blooms, including those in the Great Lakes and upper reaches of estuaries and those that originate in freshwater lakes or rivers and migrate to coastal waters.
.
5.
Consultation required
Section 102 of the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Amendments Act of 2004 (
33 U.S.C. 4001a
) is amended by striking
the amendments made by this title
and inserting
the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998
.
6.
Hypoxia or harmful algal bloom of national significance
(a)
Relief
(1)
In general
Upon a determination under subsection (b) that there is an event of national significance, the appropriate Federal official is authorized to make sums available to the affected State or local government for the purposes of assessing and mitigating the environmental, economic, social, and public health effects of the event of national significance.
(2)
Federal share
The Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out under this subsection for the purposes described in paragraph (1) may not exceed 75 percent of the cost of that activity.
(3)
Donations
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an appropriate Federal official may accept donations of funds, services, facilities, materials, or equipment that the appropriate Federal official considers necessary for the purposes described in paragraph (1). Any funds donated to an appropriate Federal official under this paragraph may be expended without further appropriation and without fiscal year limitation.
(b)
Determinations
(1)
In general
At the discretion of an appropriate Federal official, or at the request of the Governor of an affected State, an appropriate Federal official shall determine whether a hypoxia or harmful algal bloom event is an event of national significance.
(2)
Considerations
In making a determination under paragraph (1), the appropriate Federal official shall consider such factors as the toxicity of the hypoxia or harmful algal bloom, its potential to spread, the economic impact, and the geographic scope, including the potential to affect several municipalities, to affect more than 1 State, or to cross an international boundary.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate Federal official
The term
appropriate Federal official
means—
(A)
in the case of a marine or coastal hypoxia or harmful algal bloom event, the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere; and
(B)
in the case of a freshwater hypoxia or harmful algal bloom event, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(2)
Event of national significance
The term
event of national significance
means a hypoxia or harmful algal bloom event that has had or will likely have a significant environmental, economic, or public health impact on an affected State.
(3)
Hypoxia or harmful algal bloom event
The term
hypoxia or harmful algal bloom event
means the occurrence of hypoxia or a harmful algal bloom as a result of a natural, anthropogenic, or undetermined cause.
7.
Authorization of appropriations
Section 609(a) (
33 U.S.C. 4009(a)
) is amended by inserting
, and $22,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023
before the period at the end.
