1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Air Travel Ticketing Transparency and Protection Act
.
2.
Consumer protection requirements relating to large ticket agents
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a final rule to enable and require large ticket agents to adopt minimum customer service standards.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of the final rule shall be for air carriers and large ticket agents to ensure that, to the extent practicable, there is a consistent level of consumer protection regardless of where consumers purchase air fares and related passenger air transportation services.
(c)
Standards
In issuing the final rule, the Secretary shall endeavor to establish standards consistent with all customer service and disclosure requirements applicable to air carriers under title 49, United States Code, and associated regulations in connection with the purchase of air fares and related passenger air transportation services.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Air carrier
The term
air carrier
means an air carrier or foreign air carrier, as those terms are defined in section 40102(a) of title 49, United States Code.
(2)
Consumer
The term
consumer
means a person who purchases or considers the purchase of passenger air transportation services.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
(4)
Ticket agent
(A)
In general
Subject to subparagraph (B), the term
ticket agent
has the meaning given that term in section 40102(a) of title 49, United States Code.
(B)
Inclusion
The term
ticket agent
includes a person who acts as an intermediary involved in the sale of passenger air transportation directly or indirectly to consumers, including by operating an electronic airline information system, if the person—
(i)
holds the person out as a source of information about, or reservations for, the passenger air transportation industry; and
(ii)
receives compensation in any way related to the sale of passenger air transportation.
(5)
Large ticket agent
The term
large ticket agent
means a ticket agent with annual revenues of $100,000,000 or more.
