Executive Order  —Continuing To Strengthen Americans' Access to Affordable, Quality Health Coverage
 ,  
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. On  , I signed Executive Order   (Strengthening   and the Affordable Care Act), establishing that it is the policy of my Administration to protect and strengthen   and the Affordable Care Act ( ) and to make high-quality healthcare accessible and affordable for every  . It directs executive departments and agencies (agencies) with authorities and responsibilities related to   and the   to review existing regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, and any other similar agency actions (collectively, agency actions) to determine whether such agency actions are inconsistent with this policy.

Consistent with Executive Order  , agencies have taken numerous actions to protect and strengthen   and the  , including:

(a) facilitating the expansion of   in   and   to individuals below 138 percent of the   poverty level, which is projected to cover nearly half a million people;

(b) extending   eligibility to new populations in order to allow pregnant individuals to retain their   coverage for   postpartum, including through initiatives in  ,  ,  , and  ;

(c) operating a Special Enrollment Period during   that allowed 2.8 million   to newly enroll in coverage under the  ;

(d) extending the length of the HealthCare.gov Open Enrollment Period by   and operating the most successful Open Enrollment Period ever, with a historic 14.5 million   enrolling in coverage through the ACA Marketplaces and an additional 1 million people enrolling in   coverage, resulting in a 20 percent increase over   across both programs combined;

(e) increasing outreach and enrollment funding for organizations that help   apply for   and   coverage, including quadrupling the number of trained Navigators to more than 1,500 people in   using HealthCare.gov;

(f) lowering maximum out-of-pocket costs for consumers with employer and   coverage by $400 in  ;

(g) reducing paperwork burdens for people enrolling in   and the   by eliminating unnecessary documentation requirements;

(h) allowing low-income   to enroll in affordable   coverage year-round;

(i) strengthening   and   section 1332 waiver policies to partner with   to develop innovative coverage options, strengthen benefits, and lower costs;

(j) proposing rules that would better ensure comprehensive and standardized coverage and improve the adequacy of   provider networks; and

(k) making efforts to improve the affordability of   coverage for families by proposing rules to correct a regulatory gap that prevents family members from accessing   subsidies despite very high premiums for coverage through an employer.

On  , I signed into law   of   (Public Law 117-2), which will further strengthen   and the   in numerous ways, including by making   coverage more affordable for 9 million   through enhanced   subsidies, incentivizing   to adopt the  's   expansion, making it easier for   to extend postpartum   coverage, establishing new options for   to establish mobile crisis intervention services teams to help provide services to   beneficiaries experiencing a behavioral health crisis, and increasing   funding for home- and community-based services to strengthen and expand access to services for millions of seniors and people with disabilities who need care as well as to help States strengthen their programs.

My Administration has made significant progress in making healthcare more affordable and accessible to millions of  . From  , one in seven uninsured   gained coverage, leaving the uninsured rate at nearly an all-time low. Despite this progress, nearly 4 million   continue to be locked out of   expansion because they reside in 1 of the 12 States that have failed to adopt the  's   expansion. In addition, millions more continue to struggle to obtain the care they need, to go without health coverage, or to be enrolled in coverage that is insufficient to meet their needs. The effects of being uninsured or underinsured can be devastating financially, as families without access to affordable coverage may accrue high levels of medical debt.

It remains the policy of my Administration to protect and strengthen   and the   and to make high-quality healthcare accessible and affordable for every  . Agencies with authorities and responsibilities related to   and the   are continuing their review of existing agency actions under Executive Order  .

 . 2

.

Agency Responsibilities

. In addition to taking the actions directed pursuant to Executive Order  , agencies (as described in section 3502(1) of title  , United States Code, except for the agencies described in  ) of title  , United States Code) with responsibilities related to  ' access to health coverage shall review agency actions to identify ways to continue to expand the availability of affordable health coverage, to improve the quality of coverage, to strengthen benefits, and to help more   enroll in quality health coverage. As part of this review, the heads of such agencies shall examine the following:

(a) policies or practices that make it easier for all consumers to enroll in and retain coverage, understand their coverage options, and select appropriate coverage;

(b) policies or practices that strengthen benefits and improve access to healthcare providers;

(c) policies or practices that improve the comprehensiveness of coverage and protect consumers from low-quality coverage;

(d) policies or practices that expand eligibility and lower costs for coverage in the ACA Marketplaces,  ,  , and other programs;

(e) policies or practices that help improve linkages between the healthcare system and other stakeholders to address health-related needs; and

(f) policies or practices that help reduce the burden of medical debt on households.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
