Executive Order  —Blocking Property With Respect to Specified Harmful Foreign Activities of the Government of  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that specified harmful foreign activities of  —in particular, efforts to undermine the conduct of free and fair democratic elections and democratic institutions in   and its allies and partners; to engage in and facilitate malicious cyber-enabled activities against   and its allies and partners; to foster and use transnational corruption to influence foreign governments; to pursue extraterritorial activities targeting dissidents or journalists; to undermine security in countries and regions important to   national security; and to violate well-established principles of international law, including respect for the territorial integrity of states—constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  . I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

Accordingly, I hereby order:

Section 1

. All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(a) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , and, with respect to subsection (a)(ii) of this section, in consultation with the Attorney General, or by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , and, with respect to subsection (a)(ii) of this section, in consultation with the Attorney General:

(i) to operate or have operated in the technology sector or the defense and related materiel sector of the   economy, or any other sector of the   economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  ;

(ii) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following for or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, directly or indirectly, the Government of  :

(A) malicious cyber-enabled activities;

(B) interference in   or other foreign government election;

(C) actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in   or abroad;

(D) transnational corruption; (E) assassination, murder, or other unlawful killing of, or infliction of other bodily harm against, a   person or a citizen or national of   ally or partner;

(F) activities that undermine the peace, security, political stability, or territorial integrity of  , its allies, or its partners; or

(G) deceptive or structured transactions or dealings to circumvent any   sanctions, including through the use of digital currencies or assets or the use of physical assets;

(iii) to be or have been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of:

(A) the Government of  ;

(B) an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section; or

(C) an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(iv) to be a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the Government of  ;

(v) to be a spouse or adult child of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (a)(ii) or (iii) of this section;

(vi) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:

(A) any activity described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section; or

(B) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(vii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the Government of   or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

(b) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, a government whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to chapter V of title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations or another Executive Order, and to be:

(i) a citizen or national of  ;

(ii) an entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches); or

(iii) a person ordinarily resident in  .

(c) any person determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in or attempted to engage in, cutting or disrupting gas or energy supplies to Europe, the  , or Asia, and to be:

(i) an individual who is a citizen or national of  ; or

(ii) an entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches).

(d) The prohibitions in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 2

. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 3

. (a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and the entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of   or the Secretary of  , as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of  , including when the Secretary of   or the Secretary of  , as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important   law enforcement objectives.

(b) The Secretary of   shall implement this authority as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , may establish.

(c) The Secretary of   shall implement this order as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , may establish.

(d) Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).

 . 4

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 5

. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 6

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) the term "Government of the Russian Federation" means the Government of  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including   of  , and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of  ;

(c) the term "noncitizen" means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of  ;

(d) the term "person" means an individual or entity; and

(e) the term "  person" means any   citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 7

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 8

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 9

. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   or   (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.

 . 10

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 11

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
