Executive Order  —  to the Situation in  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of   (Blocking Property of Certain Persons Undermining Democratic Processes or Institutions in  ), finding that the   regime's harmful activities and long-standing abuses aimed at suppressing democracy and the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms in  —including illicit and oppressive activities stemming from  , fraudulent   presidential election and its aftermath, such as the elimination of political opposition and civil society organizations and the regime's disruption and endangering of international civil air travel—constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  .

Accordingly, I hereby order:

Section 1

. (a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  :

(i) to be or have been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of:

(A) an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any of the activities described in subsections ( ) of this section or section 1(a)(ii)(A)-(C) of Executive Order  ; or

(B) an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order or Executive Order  ;

(ii) to be a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of  ;

(iii) to be or have been a leader or official of  ;

(iv) to operate or have operated in the defense and related materiel sector, security sector, energy sector, potassium chloride (potash) sector, tobacco products sector, construction sector, or transportation sector of the economy of  , or any other sector of the   economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  ;

(v) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:

(A) actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, stability, or territorial integrity of  ;

(B) actions or policies that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms (including freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly, association, religion or belief, and movement) by individuals in  , or that limit access to the Internet or print, online, or broadcast media in  ;

(C) electoral fraud or other actions or policies that undermined the electoral process in a Republic of Belarus election;

(D) deceptive or structured transactions or dealings to circumvent any   sanctions by or for or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, directly or indirectly,   or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order or Executive Order  ; or

(E) public corruption related to  .

(vi) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in subsections ( ) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(vii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly,   or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 2

. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 3

. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1(a) of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and expanded in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 4

. (a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section l of this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and the entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of   or the Secretary of  , as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of  , including when the Secretary of   or the Secretary of  , as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important   law enforcement objectives.

(b) The Secretary of   shall implement this order as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , may establish.

(c) The Secretary of   shall implement this order as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , may establish.

(d) Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).

 . 5

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 6

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) The term "Government of Belarus" means  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including  , and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of,  ;

(c) the term "noncitizen" means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of  ;

(d) the term "person" means an individual or entity; and

(e) the term "  person" means any   citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 7

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and expanded in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.

 . 8

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All executive departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 9

. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

 . 10

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
