Executive Order 14010—Creating a Comprehensive Regional Framework To Address the Causes of Migration, To Manage Migration Throughout North and Central America, and To Provide Safe and Orderly Processing of Asylum Seekers at  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (INA), 8 U.S.C.  

et seq

., it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. For generations, immigrants have come to   with little more than the clothes on their backs, hope in their hearts, and a desire to claim their own piece of the   Dream. These mothers, fathers, sons, and daughters have made our   better and stronger.

  is also a country with borders and with laws that must be enforced. Securing our borders does not require us to ignore the humanity of those who seek to cross them. The opposite is true. We cannot solve the humanitarian crisis at our border without addressing the violence, instability, and lack of opportunity that compel so many people to flee their homes. Nor is   safer when resources that should be invested in policies targeting actual threats, such as drug cartels and human traffickers, are squandered on efforts to stymie legitimate asylum seekers.

Consistent with these principles, my Administration will implement a multi-pronged approach toward managing migration throughout North and Central America that reflects the  's highest values. We will work closely with civil society, international organizations, and the governments in the region to: establish a comprehensive strategy for addressing the causes of migration in the region; build, strengthen, and expand   and   countries' asylum systems and resettlement capacity; and increase opportunities for vulnerable populations to apply for protection closer to home. At the same time,   will enhance lawful pathways for migration to this country and will restore and strengthen our own asylum system, which has been badly damaged by policies enacted over   that contravened our values and caused needless human suffering.

 . 2

.

United States Strategies for Addressing the Root Causes of Irregular Migration and for   in the Region

. (a) The Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the heads of any other relevant executive departments and agencies, shall as soon as possible prepare:

(i)   Strategy for Addressing the Root Causes of Migration (the "Root Causes Strategy"); and

(ii)   Strategy for   in the Region ( ").

(b) The Root Causes Strategy shall identify and prioritize actions to address the underlying factors leading to migration in the region and ensure coherence of   positions. The Root Causes Strategy shall take into account, as appropriate, the views of bilateral, multilateral, and private sector partners, as well as civil society, and it shall include proposals to: (i) coordinate place-based efforts in  ,  , and   (the "Northern Triangle") to address the root causes of migration, including by:

(A) combating corruption, strengthening democratic governance, and advancing the rule of law;

(B) promoting respect for human rights, labor rights, and a free press;

(C) countering and preventing violence, extortion, and other crimes perpetrated by criminal gangs, trafficking networks, and other organized criminal organizations;

(D) combating sexual, gender-based, and domestic violence; and

(E) addressing economic insecurity and inequality;

(ii) consult and collaborate with  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   to evaluate compliance with   to ensure that unfair labor practices do not disadvantage competition; and

(iii) encourage the deployment of Northern Triangle domestic resources and the development of Northern Triangle domestic capacity to replicate and scale efforts to foster sustainable societies across the region.

(c)   shall identify and prioritize actions to strengthen cooperative efforts to address migration flows, including by expanding and improving upon previous efforts to resettle throughout the region those migrants who qualify for humanitarian protection.   should focus on programs and infrastructure that facilitate access to protection and other lawful immigration avenues, in both   and partner countries, as close to migrants' homes as possible. Priorities should include support for expanding pathways through which individuals facing difficult or dangerous conditions in their home countries can find stability and safety in receiving countries throughout the region, not only through asylum and refugee resettlement, but also through labor and other non-protection-related programs. To support the development of  ,   shall promptly begin consultations with civil society, the private sector, international organizations, and governments in the region, including  . These consultations should address:

(i) the continued development of asylum systems and resettlement capacities of receiving countries in the region, including through the provision of funding, training, and other support;

(ii) the development of internal relocation and integration programs for internally displaced persons, as well as return and reintegration programs for returnees in relevant countries of the region; and

(iii) humanitarian assistance, including through expansion of shelter networks, to address the immediate needs of individuals who have fled their homes to seek protection elsewhere in the region.

 . 3

.

Expansion of Lawful Pathways for Protection and Opportunity in  

. (a) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall promptly review mechanisms for better identifying and processing individuals from the Northern Triangle who are eligible for refugee resettlement to  . Consideration shall be given to increasing access and processing efficiency. As part of this review, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall also identify and implement all legally available and appropriate forms of relief to complement the protection afforded through  . The Secretary of   and Secretary of   shall submit a report to the President with the results of the review.

(b) As part of the review conducted pursuant to section 3(a) of this order, the Secretary of   shall:

(i) consider taking all appropriate actions to reverse the   decision rescinding   ( ) parole policy and terminating the  ,

see

"Termination of the Central American Minors Parole Program," 82  .  . 38,926 ( ), and consider initiating appropriate actions to reinstitute and improve upon the  ; and

(ii) consider promoting family unity by exercising the Secretary's discretionary parole authority to permit certain nationals of the Northern Triangle who are the beneficiaries of approved family-sponsored immigrant visa petitions to join their family members in  , on a case-by-case basis.

(c) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall promptly evaluate and implement measures to enhance access for individuals from the Northern Triangle to visa programs, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 4

.

Restoring and Enhancing Asylum Processing at the Border

. (a)

Resuming the Safe and Orderly Processing of Asylum Claims at United States Land Borders

.

(i) The Secretary of   and the Director of   ( ), in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall promptly begin consultation and planning with international and non-governmental organizations to develop policies and procedures for the safe and orderly processing of asylum claims at   land borders, consistent with public health and safety and capacity constraints.

(ii) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Attorney General, the Secretary of   ( ), and the Director of  , shall promptly begin taking steps to reinstate the safe and orderly reception and processing of arriving asylum seekers, consistent with public health and safety and capacity constraints. Additionally, in furtherance of this goal, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

(A) The Secretary of   and the Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall promptly review and determine whether termination, rescission, or modification of the following actions is necessary and appropriate: "Order Suspending the Right To Introduce Certain Persons From Countries Where a Quarantinable Communicable Disease Exists," 85  .  . 65,806 ( ); and "Control of Communicable Diseases; Foreign Quarantine: Suspension of the Right to Introduce and Prohibition of Introduction of Persons into   from  ," 85  .  . 56,424 ( ) (codified at 42   71.40).

(B) The Secretary of   shall promptly review and determine whether to terminate or modify the program known as   ( ), including by considering whether to rescind the Memorandum of the Secretary of   titled "Policy Guidance for Implementation of the Migrant Protection Protocols" ( ), and any implementing guidance. In coordination with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Director of  , the Secretary of   shall promptly consider a phased strategy for the safe and orderly entry into  , consistent with public health and safety and capacity constraints, of those individuals who have been subjected to   for further processing of their asylum claims.

(C) The Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall promptly review and determine whether to rescind the interim final rule titled "Aliens Subject to a Bar on Entry Under Certain Presidential Proclamations; Procedures for Protection Claims," 83  .  . 55,934 ( ), and the final rule titled "Asylum Eligibility and Procedural Modifications," 85  .  . 82,260 ( ), as well as any agency memoranda or guidance that were issued in reliance on those rules.

(D) The Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall promptly review and determine whether to rescind the interim final rule titled "Implementing Bilateral and Multilateral Asylum Cooperative Agreements Under the Immigration and Nationality Act," 84  .  . 63,994 ( ), as well as any agency memoranda or guidance issued in reliance on that rule. In the interim, the Secretary of   shall promptly consider whether to notify the governments of the Northern Triangle that, as efforts to establish a cooperative, mutually respectful approach to managing migration across the region begin,   intends to suspend and terminate the following agreements:

(1) "Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and  ," 84  .  . 64,095 ( ).

(2) "Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and   in  ," 85  .  . 83,597 ( ).

(3) "Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and   in  ," 85  .  . 25,462 ( ).

(E) The Secretary of   shall promptly cease implementing the "Prompt Asylum Case Review" program and  " and consider rescinding any orders, rules, regulations, guidelines or policies implementing those programs.

(F) The following Presidential documents are revoked:

(1) Executive Order   ( ).

(2) Proclamation 9880 of   (Addressing Mass Migration Through the Southern Border of  ).

(3) Presidential Memorandum of   (Additional Measures to  ).

(4) Presidential Memorandum of   (Ending "Catch and Release" at the Border of   and Directing Other Enhancements to Immigration Enforcement).

(5) Presidential Memorandum of   (  of  ). (G) The Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of   shall promptly take steps to rescind any agency memoranda or guidance issued in reliance on or in furtherance of any directive revoked by section 4(a)(ii)(F) of this order.

(b)

Ensuring a Timely and  

.

(i) The Secretary of  , with support from   within  , shall promptly begin a review of procedures for individuals placed in expedited removal proceedings at the   border. Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall submit a report to the President with the results of this review and recommendations for creating a more efficient and orderly process that facilitates timely adjudications and adherence to standards of fairness and due process.

(ii) The Secretary of   shall promptly review and consider whether to modify, revoke, or rescind the designation titled "Designating Aliens for Expedited Removal," 84  .  . 35,409 ( ), regarding the geographic scope of expedited removal pursuant to INA section 235(b)(1), 8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(1), consistent with applicable law. The review shall consider our legal and humanitarian obligations, constitutional principles of due process and other applicable law, enforcement resources, the public interest, and any other factors consistent with this order that the Secretary deems appropriate. If the Secretary determines that modifying, revoking, or rescinding the designation is appropriate, the Secretary shall do so through publication in  .

(c)

Asylum Eligibility

. The Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall:

(i) within   of the date of this order, conduct a comprehensive examination of current rules, regulations, precedential decisions, and internal guidelines governing the adjudication of asylum claims and determinations of refugee status to evaluate whether   provides protection for those fleeing domestic or gang violence in a manner consistent with international standards; and

(ii) within   of the date of this order, promulgate joint regulations, consistent with applicable law, addressing the circumstances in which a person should be considered a member of a "particular social group," as that term is used in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)(A), as derived from the   Convention relating to   and its 1967 Protocol.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
