Executive Order  —Protecting the Federal Workforce
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Career civil servants are the backbone of the Federal workforce, providing the expertise and experience necessary for the critical functioning of  . It is the policy of   to protect, empower, and rebuild the career Federal workforce. It is also the policy of   to encourage union organizing and collective bargaining.   should serve as a model employer.

 . 2

.

Revocation of Schedule F

. (a) The creation of a new   excepted service category in Executive Order   (Creating Schedule F in  ), not only was unnecessary to the conditions of good administration, but also undermined the foundations of the civil service and its merit system principles, which were essential to   of  's repudiation of the spoils system. Accordingly, to enhance the efficiency of the civil service and to promote good administration and systematic application of merit system principles, Executive Order   is hereby revoked.

(b) The heads of all executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall, consistent with law, immediately suspend, revise, or rescind proposed actions, decisions, petitions, rules, regulations or other guidance pursuant to, or to effectuate, Executive Order  . The Director of   (OPM) shall immediately cease processing or granting any petitions that seek to convert positions to   or to create new positions in  . 3

.

Revocation of Certain Presidential and Regulatory Actions

. (a) Executive Order   of   (Developing Efficient, Effective, and   to Federal Sector  ), is hereby revoked.   is hereby disbanded and the Director of   shall withdraw all materials issued by this working group that are inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

(b) Executive Order   of   (Ensuring Transparency, Accountability, and Efficiency in  ), is hereby revoked.

(c) Executive   of   (Promoting Accountability and Streamlining Removal Procedures Consistent with  ), is hereby revoked.

(d) The Presidential Memorandum of   (Executive Orders  , and  ), is hereby revoked.

(e) The heads of agencies whose practices were covered by Executive Orders  , and   (affected agencies) shall review and identify existing agency actions related to or arising from those orders. Such actions include:

(i) Actions related to the authorization of union time described in sections 4(b) and 5(b) of Executive Order  ;

(ii) Actions related to the system for monitoring the use of union time described in section 5(c) of Executive Order  ;

(iii) Guidance promulgated pursuant to section 7(d) of Executive Order  ; (iv) Actions taken pursuant to section 8 of Executive Order  ;

(v) Revisions to discipline and unacceptable performance policies, including ones codified in bargaining agreements, issued pursuant to section 7(b) of Executive Order  ; and

(vii) The final rule entitled "Probation on Initial Appointment to a Competitive Position,   in Grade and Removal Actions and  ," 85

 .  

.   ( ).

(f) The heads of affected agencies shall, as soon as practicable, suspend, revise, or rescind, or publish for notice and comment proposed rules suspending, revising, or rescinding, the actions identified in the review described in subsection (e) of this section, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law and the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 4

.

Ensuring the Right to Engage in Collective Bargaining

. The head of each agency subject to the provisions of chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, shall elect to negotiate over the subjects set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(1) and shall instruct subordinate officials to do the same.

 . 5

.

Progress Toward a Living Wage for Federal Employees

. The Director of   shall provide a report to the President with recommendations to promote a $15/hour minimum wage for Federal employees.

 . 6

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of such provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
