Executive Order  —Revocation of  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to use available tools to confront the urgent challenges facing the  , including the coronavirus disease   (COVID-19) pandemic, economic recovery, racial justice, and climate change. To tackle these challenges effectively, executive departments and agencies (agencies) must be equipped with the flexibility to use robust regulatory action to address national priorities. This order revokes harmful policies and directives that threaten to frustrate   ability to confront these problems, and empowers agencies to use appropriate regulatory tools to achieve these goals.

 . 2

.

Revocation of Orders

. Executive Order   of   (  and Controlling Regulatory Costs), Executive Order   of   (Enforcing the Regulatory Reform Agenda), Executive Order   (Evaluating and Improving the Utility of Federal Advisory Committees), Executive Order   of   (Promoting the Rule of Law Through Improved Agency Guidance Documents), Executive Order   of   (Promoting the Rule of Law Through Transparency and Fairness in Civil Administrative Enforcement and Adjudication), and Executive Order   of   (Increasing Government Accountability for Administrative Actions by Reinvigorating Administrative PAYGO), are hereby revoked.

 . 3

.

Implementation

. The Director of   and the heads of agencies shall promptly take steps to rescind any orders, rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies, or portions thereof, implementing or enforcing   identified in section 2 of this order, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551

et seq

. If in any case such rescission cannot be finalized immediately, the Director and the heads of agencies shall promptly take steps to provide all available exemptions authorized by any such orders, rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law. In addition, any personnel positions, committees, task forces, or other entities established pursuant to   identified in section 2 of this order, including the regulatory reform officer positions and regulatory reform task forces established by sections 2 and 3 of Executive Order  , shall be abolished, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
