Executive Order  —  Detained United States Nationals Home
 ,  
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the   and Hostage-taking Accountability Act (22 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  

, President of  , find that hostage-taking and the wrongful detention of   nationals are heinous acts that undermine the rule of law. Terrorist organizations, criminal groups, and other malicious actors who take hostages for financial, political, or other gain—as well as foreign states that engage in the practice of wrongful detention, including for political leverage or to seek concessions from  —threaten the integrity of the international political system and the safety of   nationals and other persons abroad. I therefore determine that hostage-taking and the wrongful detention of   nationals abroad constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  . I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with this threat.

  must redouble its efforts at home and with partners abroad to deter these practices and to secure the release of those held as hostages or wrongfully detained. Processes established under Executive Order 13698 of   (Hostage Recovery Activities) and Presidential Policy Directive   (  and  ) (PPD-30) have facilitated close interagency coordination on efforts to secure the safe release of   nationals taken hostage abroad, including engagement with the families of hostages and support of diplomatic engagement with partners abroad. This order reinforces the roles, responsibilities, and commitments contained in those directives and seeks to ensure that—as with hostage recovery activities—interagency coordination, family engagement, and diplomatic tools are enshrined in   efforts to secure the safe release and return of   nationals wrongfully detained by foreign state actors. This order also reinforces tools to deter and to impose tangible consequences on those responsible for, or complicit in, hostage-taking or the wrongful detention of a   national abroad.

Accordingly, I hereby order:

Section 1

. Executive Order 13698 and PPD-30 shall continue to apply to   hostage recovery activities. Nothing in this order shall alter the responsibilities of   ( ),   (HRG), or the Special Presidential Envoy for   (SPEHA), established by Executive Order  , with respect to hostage recovery activities under Executive Order 13698 or PPD-30. Nor shall this order alter the scope of PPD-30, which applies to both suspected and confirmed hostage-takings in which a   national is abducted or held outside of  , as well as to other hostage-takings occurring abroad in which   has a national interest, but does not apply if a foreign government confirms that it has detained a   national.

 . 2

. (a) The HRG shall, in coordination with   regional directorates as appropriate, convene on a regular basis and as needed at the request of   to work to secure the safe release of   nationals held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad.

(b) The  , in support of     and consistent with the process outlined in   Memorandum 2 of   (Renewing  ), or any successor memorandum, shall:

(i) identify and recommend options and strategies to the President through the Assistant to the President for   to secure the recovery of hostages or the return of wrongfully detained   nationals;

(ii) coordinate the development and implementation of policies, strategies, and procedures for the recovery of hostages or the return of wrongfully detained   nationals;

(iii) coordinate and deconflict policy guidance, strategies, and activities that potentially affect the recovery or welfare of   nationals held hostage or the return or welfare of   nationals wrongfully detained abroad, including reviewing proposed recovery or return options;

(iv) receive regular updates from the  ,  , and other executive departments and agencies (agencies), as the   deems appropriate, on the status of   nationals being held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad and measures being taken to effect safe releases;

(v) receive regular updates from   on all new wrongful detention determinations; and

(vi) where higher-level guidance is required, make recommendations to    .

 . 3

. (a) The SPEHA shall report to the Secretary of   on a regular basis and as needed to advance efforts to secure the safe release of   nationals wrongfully detained abroad.

(b) The SPEHA shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

(i) coordinate diplomatic engagements and strategy regarding hostage and wrongful detention cases, in coordination with the   and relevant agencies, as appropriate and consistent with policy guidance communicated through the  ;

(ii) share information, including information acquired during consular interactions and engagements, regarding wrongful detention cases with relevant agencies to facilitate close interagency coordination;

(iii) draw on the experience and expertise of the   to support efforts to return wrongfully detained   nationals, including by providing support and assistance to the families of those wrongfully detained;

(iv) develop and regularly update, in coordination with relevant agencies, strategies for wrongful detention cases for review by the  ;

(v) ensure, in coordination with  , that relevant agencies have access to necessary information, including intelligence information, on wrongful detention cases to inform strategies and options; and

(vi) share, in coordination with  , relevant information, including intelligence information, on developments in wrongful detention cases with the families of wrongfully detained   nationals, in a timely manner, as appropriate and consistent with the protection of sources and methods.

(c) To ensure that   provides a coordinated, effective, and supportive response to wrongful detentions, the Secretary of   shall identify adequate resources to enable the SPEHA to:

(i) ensure that all interactions by executive branch officials with the family of a wrongfully detained   national occur in a coordinated fashion and that the family receives consistent and accurate information from  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law;

(ii) provide support and assistance to wrongfully detained   nationals and their families throughout their detention, including through coordination with the  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law; and

(iii) provide support and assistance to   nationals upon their return to   from wrongful detention, including through coordination with the   and  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 4

. The SPEHA, in coordination with the  , the  , and relevant agencies, as appropriate, shall identify and recommend options and strategies to the President through the Assistant to the President for   to reduce the likelihood of   nationals being held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad. The options shall seek to counter and deter hostage-takings and wrongful detentions by terrorist organizations, foreign governments, and other actors by imposing costs on those who participate in, support, or facilitate such conduct. The strategies shall seek to deter any effort to engage in hostage-taking or the wrongful detention of   nationals abroad through cooperation with like-minded foreign governments and organizations.

 . 5

. The Secretary of   shall publicly or privately designate or identify officials of foreign governments who are involved, directly or indirectly, in wrongful detentions, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including section 7031(c) of  , and Related Programs Appropriations Act,   ( ).

 . 6

. (a) All property and interests in property of the following persons that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the   and the Attorney General:

(A) to be responsible for or complicit in, to have directly or indirectly engaged in, or to be responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the hostage-taking of a   national or the wrongful detention of a   national abroad;

(B) to have attempted to engage in any activity described in subsection (a)(i)(A) of this section; or

(C) to be or have been a leader or official of an entity that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities described in subsections (a)(i)(A) or (a)(i)(B) of this section relating to the leader's or official's tenure;

(ii) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General:

(A) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:

(1) any activity described in subsection (a)(i)(A) of this section; or

(2) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(B) to be owned, controlled, or directed by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(C) to have attempted to engage in any activity described in subsection (a)(ii)(A) of this section.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 7

. (a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the criteria set forth in section 6(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and the entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of   or the Secretary of  , as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of  , including when the Secretary of   or the Secretary of  , as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important   law enforcement objectives.

(b) The Secretary of   shall implement this authority as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , may establish.

(c) The Secretary of   shall implement this order as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , may establish.

(d) Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).

 . 8

. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 6 of this order.

 . 9

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 10

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 6 of this order.

 . 11

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 12

. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

 . 13

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1642(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 14

. For purposes of this order:

(a) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) the term "foreign person" means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of  , provided such individual does not reside in  ) or any entity not organized solely under the laws of   or existing solely in  ;

(c) the term "hostage-taking" has the same meaning as provided in PPD-30, which is the unlawful abduction or holding of a person or persons against their will in order to compel a third person or governmental organization to do or to abstain from doing any act as a condition for the release of the person detained;

(d) the term "noncitizen" means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of  ;

(e) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(f) the term "  national" means:

(i) a "national of  " as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22) or 8 U.S.C. 1408; or

(ii) a lawful permanent resident with significant ties to  ;

(g) the term "  person" means any   citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(h) the term "wrongful detention" means a detention that the Secretary of   has determined to be wrongful consistent with section 302(a) of the Levinson Act.

 . 15

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
