Executive Order  —Protecting  ' Sensitive Data From Foreign Adversaries
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that it is appropriate to elaborate upon measures to address the national emergency with respect to the information and communications technology and services supply chain that was declared in Executive Order   of   ( ). Specifically, the increased use in   of certain connected software applications designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned or controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of, a foreign adversary, which the Secretary of   acting pursuant to Executive Order   has defined to include  , among others, continues to threaten the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  .   should evaluate these threats through rigorous, evidence-based analysis and should address any unacceptable or undue risks consistent with overall national security, foreign policy, and economic objectives, including the preservation and demonstration of  's core values and fundamental freedoms.

By operating on   information and communications technology devices, including personal electronic devices such as smartphones, tablets, and computers, connected software applications can access and capture vast swaths of information from users, including   persons' personal information and proprietary business information. This data collection threatens to provide foreign adversaries with access to that information. Foreign adversary access to large repositories of   persons' data also presents a significant risk.

In evaluating the risks of a connected software application, several factors should be considered. Consistent with the criteria established in Executive Order  , and in addition to the criteria set forth in implementing regulations, potential indicators of risk relating to connected software applications include: ownership, control, or management by persons that support a foreign adversary's military, intelligence, or proliferation activities; use of the connected software application to conduct surveillance that enables espionage, including through a foreign adversary's access to sensitive or confidential government or business information, or sensitive personal data; ownership, control, or management of connected software applications by persons subject to coercion or cooption by a foreign adversary; ownership, control, or management of connected software applications by persons involved in malicious cyber activities; a lack of thorough and reliable third-party auditing of connected software applications; the scope and sensitivity of the data collected; the number and sensitivity of the users of the connected software application; and the extent to which identified risks have been or can be addressed by independently verifiable measures.

The ongoing emergency declared in Executive Order   arises from a variety of factors, including the continuing effort of foreign adversaries to steal or otherwise obtain   persons' data. That continuing effort by foreign adversaries constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  . To address this threat,   must act to protect against the risks associated with connected software applications that are designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned or controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of, a foreign adversary.

Additionally,   seeks to promote accountability for persons who engage in serious human rights abuse. If persons who own, control, or manage connected software applications engage in serious human rights abuse or otherwise facilitate such abuse,   may impose consequences on those persons in action separate from this order.

Accordingly, it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1

.

Revocation of Presidential Actions

. The following orders are revoked: Executive Order   of   (Addressing the Threat Posed by  , and   the National Emergency With Respect to the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply Chain); Executive Order   of   (Addressing the Threat Posed by WeChat, and   the National Emergency With Respect to the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply Chain); and Executive Order 13971 of   (Addressing the Threat Posed by Applications and Other Software Developed or   by   Companies).

 . 2

.

Implementation

. (a) The Director of   and the heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall promptly take steps to rescind any orders, rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies, or portions thereof, implementing or enforcing    , or  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551

et seq

. In addition, any personnel positions, committees, task forces, or other entities established pursuant to Executive Orders  , or   shall be abolished, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(b) Not   after the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the heads of other agencies as the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall provide a report to the Assistant to the President and   with recommendations to protect against harm from the unrestricted sale of, transfer of, or access to   persons' sensitive data, including personally identifiable information, personal health information, and genetic information, and harm from access to large data repositories by persons owned or controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of, a foreign adversary. Not   after the date of this order, the Director of   shall provide threat assessments, and the Secretary of   shall provide vulnerability assessments, to the Secretary of   to support development of the report required by this subsection.

(c) Not   after the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the heads of other agencies as the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall provide a report to the Assistant to the President and   recommending additional executive and legislative actions to address the risk associated with connected software applications that are designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned or controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of, a foreign adversary.

(d) The Secretary of   shall evaluate on a continuing basis transactions involving connected software applications that may pose an undue risk of sabotage or subversion of the design, integrity, manufacturing, production, distribution, installation, operation, or maintenance of information and communications technology or services in  ; pose an undue risk of catastrophic effects on the security or resiliency of the critical infrastructure or digital economy of  ; or otherwise pose an unacceptable risk to the national security of   or the security and safety of   persons. Based on the evaluation, the Secretary of   shall take appropriate action in accordance with Executive Order   and its implementing regulations.

 . 3

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) the term "connected software application" means software, a software program, or a group of software programs, that is designed to be used on an end-point computing device and includes as an integral functionality, the ability to collect, process, or transmit data via the Internet;

(b) the term "foreign adversary" means any foreign government or foreign non-government person engaged in a long-term pattern or serious instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national security of   or security and safety of   persons;

(c) the term "information and communications technology or services" means any hardware, software, or other product or service primarily intended to fulfill or enable the function of information or data processing, storage, retrieval, or communication by electronic means, including transmission, storage, and display;

(d) the term "person" means an individual or entity; and

(e) the term "  person" means any   citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
