Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Imports, Exports, and New Investment With Respect to  
 ,  
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , relied on for additional steps taken in Executive Order   of  , and expanded by Executive Order   of  , hereby order:

Section 1

. (a) The following are prohibited:

(i) the importation into   of the following products of   origin: fish, seafood, and preparations thereof; alcoholic beverages; non-industrial diamonds; and any other products of   origin as may be determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from  , or by a   person, wherever located, of luxury goods, and any other items as may be determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , to any person located in  ;

(iii) new investment in any sector of   economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , by a   person, wherever located;

(iv) the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from  , or by a   person, wherever located, of   dollar-denominated banknotes to   or any person located in  ; and

(v) any approval, financing, facilitation, or guarantee by a   person, wherever located, of a transaction by a foreign person where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by this section if performed by a   person or within  .

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, or pursuant to the export control authorities implemented by  , and notwithstanding any contract entered into or license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 2

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3

. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   or   (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

 . 4

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(c) the term "Government of the Russian Federation" means the Government of  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including   of  , and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of  ; and

(d) the term "  person" means any   citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 5

. The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , are hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within   and  , respectively. All executive departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 6

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
