Executive Order  —Establishment of  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Advancing gender equity and equality is a matter of human rights, justice, and fairness. It is also a strategic imperative that reduces poverty and promotes economic growth, increases access to education, improves health outcomes, advances political stability, and fosters democracy. The full participation of all people—including women and girls—across all aspects of our society is essential to the economic well-being, health, and security of our Nation and of the world.

It is therefore the policy of my Administration to establish and pursue a comprehensive approach to ensure that   is working to advance equal rights and opportunities, regardless of gender or gender identity, in advancing domestic and foreign policy—including by promoting workplace diversity, fairness, and inclusion across the Federal workforce and military. This order is intended to advance gender equity and equality, with sensitivity to the experiences of those who suffer discrimination based on multiple factors, including membership in an underserved community.

 . 2

.

 

. (a) There is established a  ) within   of the President.

(b) The   shall coordinate   efforts to advance gender equity and equality, including policies and programs to:

(i) combat systemic biases and discrimination, including sexual harassment, and to support women's human rights;

(ii) increase economic security and opportunity by addressing the structural barriers to women's participation in the labor force and by decreasing wage and wealth gaps;

(iii) address the caregiving needs of   families and support the care-workers they depend upon;

(iv) support gender equity and combat gender stereotypes in education, including promoting participation in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields;

(v) promote gender equity in leadership;

(vi) increase access to comprehensive health care, address health disparities, and promote sexual and reproductive health and rights;

(vii) empower girls;

(viii) prevent and respond to all forms of gender-based violence;

(ix) address responses to the effects of the coronavirus disease   (COVID-19) on women and girls, especially those related to health, gender-based violence, educational access and attainment, and economic status;

(x) advance gender equality globally through diplomacy, development, trade, and defense; (xi) implement   commitments to women's involvement in peace and security efforts; and

(xii) recognize the needs and contributions of women and girls in humanitarian crises and in development assistance.

(c) The   shall work across executive departments and agencies (agencies) to advance gender equity and equality and provide a coordinated Federal response on issues that have a distinct impact on gender equity and equality. The   shall also work with each agency to ensure that agency operations are conducted in a manner that promotes gender equity and equality, to the extent permitted by law.

(d) The   shall provide legislative and policy recommendations to the President, evaluate other proposed policies and legislation for their potential impact on issues of gender equity and equality, propose improvement in the collection of data related to gender and gender identity, and suggest changes to Federal programs or policies to address issues of significance to women and girls.

(e) The   shall, consistent with applicable law, conduct outreach with, and consider ways to increase coordination, communication, and engagement with, representatives of a diverse range of nonprofit and community-based organizations, civil society groups, and faith-based organizations;  , local,   and territorial government officials; labor unions and worker organizations; private sector representatives; foreign government officials; multilateral organizations; and other interested persons who can inform the  's work.

(f) The   shall be led by two   designated by the President, one of whom shall also serve as the Executive Director of   Director). The   staff shall also include a Special Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor on   and other sufficient staff as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order.

(g) In addition to  , the   shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Attorney General;

(v) the Secretary of the  ;

(vi) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Secretary of  ;

(xi) the Secretary of  ;

(xii) the Secretary of  ;

(xiii) the Secretary of  ;

( ) the Secretary of  ;

(xv) the Secretary of  ;

(xvi) the Administrator of  ;

(xvii) the Director of  ;

(xviii)  ;

(xix) the Administrator of  ;

(xx) the Director of  ;

(xxi) the Representative of   to  ;

(xxii) the Director of  ;

(xxiii) the Assistant to the President for  ;

(xxiv) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(xxv) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(xxvi) the Assistant to the President on  ;

( ) the Assistant to the President on  ;

(xxviii) the Chief of Staff to the Vice President;

(xxix) the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;

(xxx) the Chair of  ;

(xxxi) the Director of  ;

(xxxii)  ;

(xxxiii) the Administrator of  ;

( ) the Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission;

( )    ;

(xxxvi) the Director of  ; and

(xxxvii) the heads of such other agencies and offices as   may from time to time invite to participate.

(h) Members of the   shall designate, within   of the date of this order, a senior official within their respective agency or office who shall coordinate with the   and who shall be responsible for overseeing the agency's or office's efforts to advance gender equity and equality. The Director of   shall designate a National Intelligence Officer for  , who shall coordinate intelligence support for the  's work on issues implicating national security.   may coordinate subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees under this section, as appropriate.

(i) Each agency shall bear its own expenses for participating in the  .

 . 3

.

Government-Wide Strategy to Advance Gender Equity and Equality

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the  , after coordination by  , shall develop and submit to  -wide strategy for advancing gender equity and equality in   and, when applicable, around the world (the "Strategy"). The Strategy should include recommendations on policies, programs, and initiatives that should be proposed, passed, or implemented to advance gender equity and equality in   and around the world.

(b) Recognizing the gender and racial disparities that   has both magnified and exacerbated, in formulating its recommendations to address the effects of the   pandemic and related economic disruption on women and girls, the   shall coordinate with   of the COVID-19 Response and  , established by section 2 of Executive Order   (Ensuring an Equitable Pandemic Response and Recovery).

(c) In developing the Strategy, the   shall consider the unique experiences and needs of women and girls who are also members of other underserved communities. In implementing this approach, the   shall work closely with  , which coordinates the interagency, whole-of-government strategy for advancing equity, as set forth in Executive Order   ( ).

 . 4

.

Implementation

. (a) After the Strategy has been submitted to the President, the heads of agencies, or their designees, shall, in consultation with the   and   (OMB), select certain of their respective agency's programs and policies for review for consistency with the Strategy. As appropriate and consistent with law, the heads of agencies shall suspend, revise, or rescind, or publish for notice and comment proposed rules suspending, revising, or rescinding, any directives, orders, regulations, policies, or guidance inconsistent with the Strategy. As appropriate, the heads of agencies shall consult with the Attorney General to the extent that any proposed actions require consultation or review under Executive Order   of   (Leadership and Coordination of Nondiscrimination Laws). As part of its review,     shall, as appropriate and consistent with law, review the     and revise or rescind it as appropriate.

(b) The   shall coordinate a comprehensive, interagency response to gender-based violence at home and abroad, including intervention, prevention, and public health strategies to reduce incidence and impacts. The Special Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor on  , working with the Executive Director, shall create a National Action Plan to End Gender-Based Violence that establishes a Government-wide approach to preventing and addressing gender-based violence in   and shall work, in conjunction with the Assistant to the President for  , to lead a comprehensive, interagency review and update of the   United States Strategy to Prevent and   to  , as appropriate and consistent with law.

(c) Following the submission of the Strategy developed pursuant to section 3 of this order, the heads of agencies shall report to the   semi-annually, and the   shall prepare an   report for submission to the President—a version of which shall be made public—on progress made in implementing the Strategy.

(d) The   shall coordinate with  , OMB, and other agencies and offices to advance my  's efforts to achieve greater equity as set forth in Executive Order  . In particular, among other things, the   shall coordinate with   on  , established in section 9 of Executive Order  .

(e) The   shall coordinate with   on all issues related to gender equality globally, including women's economic participation, health, and involvement in peace and security efforts.

(f) Consistent with section 6 of Executive Order  , the Director of OMB shall identify opportunities to promote gender equity and equality in the budget that the President submits to the  . (g) The heads of agencies, interagency working groups, and task forces shall assist and provide information to the  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, as may be helpful to carry out the functions of the  .

 . 5

.

Termination

.   created by section 2 of     (Promoting Women's Global Development and Prosperity) (NSPM-16), is terminated. NSPM-16 is amended by substituting, in section 3(e), "the  " for " ".

 . 6

.

Definitions

. (a) The term "equity" means the consistent and systematic fair, just, and impartial treatment of all individuals, including individuals who belong to underserved communities that have been denied such treatment, such as women and girls;  , and Indigenous and   persons,     and  , and other persons of color; members of religious minorities;  , gay,  , transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural areas; and persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality.

(b) The term "underserved communities" refers to populations sharing a particular characteristic, as well as geographic communities, that have been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of economic, social, and civic life, as exemplified by the list in the preceding definition of "equity."

Sec. 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .
