Executive Order  —Establishment of  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 202 of the Revised Statutes (22 U.S.C.  ) and section 3161 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Establishment of the Climate Change Support Office

. (a) There is established within  , in accordance with section   of title 5, United States Code, a temporary organization to be known as   (CCSO).

(b) The CCSO shall be headed by a Director selected by the Secretary of   (Secretary). In addition to a Director, the   may be staffed by persons in such numbers and with such skills as are necessary for the performance of CCSO functions.

(c) The purpose of the CCSO shall be to perform the specific project of supporting bilateral and multilateral engagement to advance   initiative to address the global climate crisis, led by   and in coordination with other executive departments and agencies, consistent with Executive Order   (Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad). The CCSO shall support  , including the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, in   efforts to elevate and underscore the commitment my Administration will make towards addressing the global climate crisis.

(d) In carrying out its purpose as set forth in subsection 1(c) of this order, the CCSO shall:

(i) support   and other executive departments and agencies, as appropriate, in leading diplomatic engagement on climate change, exercising climate leadership in international fora, increasing international climate ambition, and ensuring that climate change is integrated into all elements of   foreign policy-making decision processes;

(ii) support efforts that go beyond the climate work currently carried out by   across a wide range of international fora that address clean energy, aviation, shipping, the  , the ocean, sustainable development, and migration; and

(iii) perform such other functions related to the specific project set forth in subsection 1(c) of this order as the Secretary may assign.

(e) The CCSO shall terminate at the end of the maximum period permitted by section 3161(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, unless sooner terminated by the Secretary.

 . 2

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
