Executive Order  —Establishing a Second Emergency Board To Investigate a Dispute Between   and Its   by   and Trainmen
 
 , Jr.

A dispute exists between   and its   represented by  .

The dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, 45 U.S.C. 151-188 (RLA).

An emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute was established on  , by Executive Order   (Establishing an Emergency Board to Investigate a Dispute Between   and Its   by  ). That emergency board terminated upon submission of its report to the President. Subsequently, its recommendations were not accepted by the parties.

A party empowered by the   has requested that the President establish a second emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the   (45 U.S.C. 159a).

Section 9A(e) of the   provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint a second emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute.

Now, Therefore

, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 9A of the  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Establishment of a Second Emergency Board (Board)

. There is established, effective 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  , a   composed of a chair and two other members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President to investigate and report on the dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.

 . 2

.

Report

. As provided by section 9A(f) of the  , within   after the creation of the Board, the parties to the dispute shall submit to the   final offers for settlement of the dispute. As provided by section 9A(g) of the  , within   after the submission of final offers for settlement of the dispute, the   shall submit a report to the President setting forth the  's selection of the most reasonable offer.

 . 3

.

Maintaining Conditions

. As provided by section 9A(h) of the  , from the time the request to establish the   is made until   after the   submits its report to the President, the parties to the controversy shall make no change in the conditions out of which the dispute arose except by agreement of the parties.

 . 4

.

Records Maintenance

. The records and files of the   are records of   and upon the  's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of  .

 . 5

.

Expiration

. The   shall terminate upon the submission of the report to the President provided for in section 2 of this order.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
