Executive Order 14049—  Initiative on  , and Economic Opportunity for   and Strengthening Tribal Colleges and Universities
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

.   has a unique political and legal relationship with federally recognized  , as set forth in the Constitution of  , statutes, treaties,  , and court decisions.   is committed to protecting the rights and ensuring the well-being of   while respecting Tribal sovereignty and inherent rights of self-determination. In recognition of that commitment and to fulfill the solemn obligations it entails, executive departments and agencies (agencies) must help advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for   students, whether they attend public schools in urban, suburban, or rural communities; are homeschooled; attend primary and secondary schools operated or funded by   ( ) of  ; or attend postsecondary educational institutions, including   and Universities (TCUs).

For  ,   imposed educational policies designed to assimilate   peoples into predominant   culture that devastated   students and their families. Beginning with the Indian Civilization Act of  ,   enacted laws and implemented policies establishing and supporting   boarding schools across the Nation. From   onward, federally run   boarding schools were used to culturally assimilate   children who were forcibly removed from their families and communities and relocated to distant residential facilities where their   identities, languages, traditions, and beliefs were forcibly suppressed. The conditions in these schools were usually harsh, and sometimes abusive and deadly. Although these policies have ended, their effects and resulting trauma reverberate in   communities even  , creating specific challenges that merit Federal attention and response.

During the global COVID-19 pandemic,   raced to protect   members and their way of life. Tribal elders are often the keepers of Tribal culture and are critical for the preservation of   languages, as the vitality of   culture is inseparably tied to   languages. Accordingly, my Administration is committed to supporting preservation and revitalization of   languages. This includes honoring the vibrancy, importance, and strength of   languages and the traditions, values, and cultural practices that accompany them.

In addition, the   pandemic has amplified long-standing educational inequities that disproportionally affect   communities and burden   students. In particular,   children face significant learning disruption as the digital divide and lack of educational resources put remote learning out of reach for too many.   students experienced the greatest decline in undergraduate enrollment in higher education from   to 2021 compared to other student groups. These inequities compound the effects of other disparities faced by   women and girls in particular. The spike in gender-based violence during the   pandemic has intensified safety concerns for   women and girls, who were already victimized at higher rates than other women in  .

  must put strong focus on early childhood and K-12 educational opportunities. These are important to developing and strengthening   communities, and they set the stage for educational advancement and career development, including opportunities to attend TCUs.

TCUs also merit focused attention, as these institutions are integral and essential to Tribal communities. Their foundation, tradition, and mission are unique, and their cultural grounding is invaluable to providing high-quality education and successful outcomes for   students. TCUs fulfill a vital role in maintaining and preserving irreplaceable   languages and cultural traditions; in promoting excellence in   education from early childhood through primary and secondary education, into postsecondary education, and throughout graduates' careers; in offering an entry point for a career in academia, strong technical and trade school opportunities, job training, and other career-building programs to  ; and in supporting Tribal economic development efforts by building and strengthening a highly skilled   workforce. Often, they are the only postsecondary institutions within some of our  's most economically disadvantaged and rural areas. As a result, TCUs provide crucial employment opportunities and services in communities that continue to suffer high rates of unemployment and resulting social and economic distress.   therefore reaffirms and strengthens our commitment to   communities by investing in TCUs to support their continued growth and success.

It is the policy of my Administration to advance equity, excellence, and justice in our  's education system and to further   self-governance, including by supporting activities that expand educational opportunities and improve educational outcomes for all   students. My Administration will help expand opportunities for   students to learn their   languages, histories, and cultural practices; promote indigenous learning through the use of traditional ecological knowledge; and enhance access to complete and competitive educations that prepare   students for college, careers, and productive and satisfying lives. This includes supporting educational opportunities for students attending TCUs, given the unique advantages those institutions provide. My Administration is further committed to ensuring all   students have the ability to pursue careers that provide economic security for themselves and their families, including   women, who currently, on average, earn just 60 cents to every dollar earned by   men. To these ends, my Administration will collaborate with   to collect better data on educational attainment gaps faced by   students to help deepen understanding of these gaps, including barriers to workforce participation, and inform solutions.

 . 2

.

White House Initiative on  , and Economic Opportunity for   and Strengthening Tribal Colleges and Universities

. (a) To advance equity in our  's schools, to promote the economic opportunity that follows it, and to fulfill our commitment to furthering Tribal sovereignty, there is established in     Initiative on  , and Economic Opportunity for   and Strengthening Tribal Colleges and Universities (Initiative), of which the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of   shall serve as  . The Secretary of   shall, in consultation with the other   of the Initiative, designate an Executive Director for the Initiative (Executive Director). The Executive Director shall co-chair   of   on   ( ), established by Executive Order   (Establishing   on  ).

(b) The Initiative shall consult and collaborate with  ;  ; TCUs; and  ,  , and local educational departments and agencies to advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for   by focusing on the following policy goals:

(i) increasing the understanding of systemic causes of educational challenges faced by   students and working across agencies to address those challenges;

(ii) supporting and improving data collection related to   students and the implementation of evidence-based strategies to increase the participation and success of   students in all levels of education and prepare them for careers and civic engagement;

(iii) increasing the percentage of   children and families who participate in high-quality early childhood programs and services that promote healthy development and learning, prepare   children for success in school, and affirm the cultural and linguistic identity of   children;

(iv) ensuring that all   students have access to excellent teachers, school leaders, and other professionals, including by supporting efforts to improve the recruitment, preparation, development, and retention of qualified, diverse teachers, school leaders, and other professionals who understand   students' lived experiences and can effectively meet their students' academic, social, and emotional needs, particularly in partnership with TCUs;

(v) breaking down barriers that impede the access of higher education institutions that serve   students, such as TCUs, to   funding, and strengthening the capacity of those institutions to participate in Federal programs and partnerships;

(vi) ensuring that the unique indigenous, cultural, educational, traditional ecological knowledge, and   language needs of   students are met;

(vii) exploring policies to expand and support career and technical education, job training, and other career-building programs for   students and workers; and

(viii) furthering Tribal sovereignty by supporting efforts to build the capacity of Tribal educational agencies and TCUs to provide high-quality education services to   students.

(c) In working to fulfill its mission and objectives, the   shall, consistent with applicable law:

(i) engage in regular, meaningful, and robust consultation with   regarding   education and related issues, in accordance with   of   ( -to-Nation Relationships);

(ii) identify and promote evidence-based best practices that can provide   students with a rigorous and well-rounded education in safe and healthy environments, as well as access to support services, that will improve their educational, professional, economic, and civic opportunities;

(iii) advance and coordinate efforts to ensure equitable opportunities for   students in the wake of the   pandemic, including recovering learning losses and addressing other challenges—academic, financial, social, emotional, mental health, or career development—brought on or exacerbated by the   pandemic;

(iv) encourage and develop Federal partnerships with public, private, philanthropic, and nonprofit entities to improve access to educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for  ;

(v) monitor and support the development, implementation, and coordination of   educational, workforce, research, and business development policies, programs, and technical assistance designed to improve outcomes for  ;

(vi) create opportunities for strategic partnerships among agencies and work closely with   of the President on key Administration priorities related to  ;

(vii) serve as a liaison with other agencies on   issues, advise those agencies on how they might help to promote   educational opportunities, and track their success in doing so; and

(viii) advise   of the Initiative on issues of importance and policies relating to educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for   students.

(d) To facilitate partnership among agencies to advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for   students, the   Director shall work with the Director of the  ,  ) of  , and the Director of   (IHS) of   to develop a separate Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the   and each of these entities that will take advantage of each agency's expertise, resources, and facilities. Each   shall be completed within   of the date of this order, and each shall address how the  ,  , and  , respectively, will collaborate with the   in carrying out the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(e) Each agency with representation on   shall prepare a plan (Agency Plan) outlining measurable actions the agency will take to advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for   communities, including the agency's plans to implement the policy goals and directives outlined in subsection (b) of this section, and other relevant work, in consultation with the Executive Director. These   Plans shall be submitted to   of the Initiative on a date   shall establish.

(i) Each agency with representation on   shall assess and report to   of the Initiative on a regular basis, as established by   of the  , regarding its progress in implementing its  .

(ii) The Initiative shall monitor and evaluate each agency's progress towards the goals established in its   and shall coordinate with the agency to ensure that its   includes measurable and action-oriented goals.

(f)   shall provide funding and administrative support for the  , to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(g) To further shared priorities and policies that advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for underserved communities, the   shall collaborate and coordinate with other   initiatives related to educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity.

(h) The Initiative shall collaborate, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, with other organizations and entities, including: Urban   Organizations; governing bodies of   Federal and State reservations;  -recognized  ;   and   Pacific Islander organizations; and other   groups that seek to advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for   students, families, and communities in  .

(i)   after the date of this order and annually thereafter,   of the Initiative shall report to the President on the  's progress in carrying out its mission and objectives under this order.

 . 3

.

National Advisory Council

.     on Indian Education ( ), comprised of members appointed by the President under section 6141 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of   (ESEA), 20 U.S.C.  , shall serve as the advisory council for the   and shall report to the  , through and as requested by the Executive Director. To the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the   shall include members from across the education spectrum, including members who can provide specific expertise on issues concerning TCUs and other  -serving institutions, K-12 and early childhood education, special education, and vocational education.

(a) In addition to and consistent with the duties set forth in section 6141(b)(1) of the  , the   shall, in consultation with the  , advise   of the Initiative on:

(i) what is needed for the development, implementation, and coordination of educational programs and initiatives to improve educational opportunities and outcomes for  ;

(ii) how to promote career pathways for in-demand jobs for   students, including registered apprenticeships as well as internships, fellowships, mentorships, and work-based learning initiatives;

(iii) ways to strengthen TCUs and increase their participation in agency programs;

(iv) how to increase public awareness of and generate solutions for the educational and training challenges and equity disparities that   students face and the causes of these challenges and disparities;

(v) approaches to establish local and national partnerships with public, private, philanthropic, and nonprofit stakeholders to advance the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, consistent with applicable law; and

(vi) actions for promoting, improving, and expanding educational opportunities for   languages, traditions, and practices to be sustained through culturally responsive education.

(b) The   and the Executive Director shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, facilitate frequent collaborations between the   and  ,  , and other Tribal organizations.

(c) The Executive Director shall, in consultation with the  , address the  's efforts pursuant to subsection (a) of this section in the   report of the   submitted to the President.

(d)   shall provide staff support for the  .

 . 4

.

Administrative Provisions

. (a) In carrying out this order, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall study, collect information, and publish reports on the education of   students.

(b) This order supersedes Executive Order   of   (    and   and Strengthening Tribal Colleges and Universities), which is revoked. To the extent that there are other   that may conflict with or overlap with the provisions in this order, the provisions in this order shall supersede those other   on these subjects.

(c) The heads of agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the  .

(d) Each agency shall bear its own expenses of participating in the  .

 . 5

.

Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) "Tribal Nation" means an     or   tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the   acknowledges as a federally recognized tribe pursuant to   of  , 25 U.S.C. 5130,  .

(b) "Alaska Native Entities" includes "Alaska Native Corporations," which refer to village and regional   corporations organized in accordance with the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act ( ), as amended, 43 U.S.C.  ,

et seq

., and the 12 regional nonprofit associations identified under section 7 of ANCSA, 43 U.S.C.  , that provide many social services for   Natives, including those related to education.

(c) " " and "Native" mean members of one or more  .

(d) "Public school" means a Head Start center or a prekindergarten, elementary, or secondary school that is predominantly funded through  , a  , a local educational agency, a   government, or an Alaska Native Entity, including a school operated directly by, through a contract with, or a grant from the  , a  , or a  , county, or local government.

(e) "  and Universities" means those institutions that are chartered under the sovereign authority of their respective   or by   and that: qualify for funding under   and Universities Assistance Act of  , 25 U.S.C.  ,

et seq

., or   of  , 25 U.S.C. 640a note; or are listed in section 532 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of  , 7 U.S.C. 301 note.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
