Executive Order  —Taking Additional Steps To Address the National Emergency With Respect to the Situation in  
 ,  
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   of   (50 U.S.C. 1701 note), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order     (Blocking Property of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in  ), hereby order:

Section 1

. The first clause of the preamble to Executive Order   is amended to read as follows:

"By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ),   of   (50 U.S.C. 1701 note), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,".

Sec. 2

. Section 1 of Executive Order   is amended by adding a new subsection 1(a)(i)(E) after subsection 1(a)(i)(D), to read as follows:

"(E) the arrest or prosecution of a person, including an individual or media outlet disseminating information to the public, primarily because of the exercise by such person of the freedom of expression, including for members of the press, or assembly;".

 . 3

. Subsections 1(a)(iv)(B) through  ) of Executive Order   are replaced with new subsections 1(a)(iv)(B) through 1(a)(vi), to read as follows:

"(B) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(v) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(vi) to operate or have operated in the gold sector of the   economy or in any other sector of the   economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  .".

 . 4

. Subsection 1(b) of Executive Order   is replaced with a new subsection 1(b), to read as follows:

"(b) The following are prohibited:

(i) the importation into   of any products of   origin as may be determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from  , or by a   person, wherever located, of any items as may be determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , to any person located in  ;

(iii) new investment in any sector of the   economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , by a   person, wherever located; and

(iv) any approval, financing, facilitation, or guarantee by a   person, wherever located, of a transaction by a foreign person where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by this subsection if performed by a   person or within  .".

 . 5

. Section 1 of Executive Order   is amended by adding a new subsection 1(c) after subsection 1(b), to read as follows:

"(c) The prohibitions in subsections (a) and (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, or pursuant to the export control authorities implemented by  , and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.".

 . 6

. Section 8 of Executive Order   is revised to read as follows:

" . 8. The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , are hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within   and  , respectively. All executive departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.".

 . 7

. Section 9 of Executive Order   is revised to read as follows:

" . 9. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).".

 . 8

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
