Executive Order  —Promoting the  , the  , and  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. The arts, the humanities, and museum and library services are essential to the well-being, health, vitality, and democracy of our Nation. They are the soul of  , reflecting our multicultural and democratic experience. They further help us strive to be the more perfect Union to which generation after generation of   have aspired. They inspire us; provide livelihoods; sustain, anchor, and bring cohesion within diverse communities across our  ; stimulate creativity and innovation; help us understand and communicate our values as a people; compel us to wrestle with our history and enable us to imagine our future; invigorate and strengthen our democracy; and point the way toward progress.

It is the policy of my Administration to advance the cultural vitality of   by promoting the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services. To that end, my Administration will advance equity, accessibility, and opportunities for all  , particularly in underserved communities as defined in Executive Order   ( ), so that they may realize their full potential through the arts, the humanities, and access to museum and library services. Additionally, we will strengthen  's creative and cultural economy, including by enhancing and expanding opportunities for artists, humanities scholars, students, educators, and cultural heritage practitioners, as well as the museums, libraries, archives, historic sites, colleges and universities, and other institutions that support their work.

Under my Administration, the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services will be integrated into strategies, policies, and programs that advance the economic development, well-being, and resilience of all communities, especially those that have historically been underserved. The arts, the humanities, and museum and library services will be promoted and expanded to strengthen public, physical, and mental health; wellness; and healing, including within military and veteran communities. We will enhance access to high-quality arts and humanities education and programming with the aim of enabling every child in   to obtain the broad creative skills and enrichment vital to succeed. My Administration's efforts to tackle the climate crisis will be bolstered through   and societal support for and advancement of the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services. We will also safeguard and promote the artistic and cultural heritage of   and its people domestically and internationally. Finally, my Administration will strengthen our  's democracy, increase civic engagement and public service, bolster social cohesion, and advance the cause of equity and accessibility by lifting up more—and more diverse—voices and experiences through Federal support for the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services.

 . 2

.

The President's Committee on the   and the  

. (a) There is established within   ( ) the President's Committee on the   and  ) to inform and support the national engagement with   necessary to advance the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services.

(b) The   shall be structured as follows:

(i) The   shall be composed of the Chairperson of   ( ), the Chairperson of   ( ), the Director of the  , and no more than 25 additional persons who are not full-time officers or employees of   (non-Federal members) who shall be appointed by the President. The non-Federal members:

(A) shall be selected from among private individuals and  , local, and   officials;

(B) shall have a diversity of backgrounds, experiences, and areas of expertise; and

(C) shall have a demonstrated interest in and commitment to support for the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services.

(ii) The Librarian of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the Chairman of   of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts shall be invited to serve as additional, non-voting members of the  .

(iii) The President shall designate a   or two   from among the non-Federal members of the  .

(c) The   shall be solely advisory and shall provide recommendations to the President and the heads of the  ,  , and IMLS on:

(i) advancing the policy objectives set forth in section 1 of this order, including with respect to community well-being; economic development and mobility; public, physical, and mental health; education; resilience and adaptation, as well as combatting climate change; civic and   engagement; and support for the artistic and cultural heritage of  ;

(ii) promoting philanthropic and private sector engagement with and support for the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services to advance the policy objectives set forth in section 1 of this order;

(iii) enhancing the effectiveness of Federal support for the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services to advance the policy objectives set forth in section 1 of this order; and

(iv) catalyzing the engagement of the  's artists, humanities scholars, cultural heritage practitioners, and leaders in the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services, including with respect to:

(A) engagement in significant cultural events; and

(B) promoting the recognition of excellence in the arts, the humanities, and museum and library services, and their relevance to our  's social and economic well-being.

(d) The  's recommendations pursuant to subsection (c) of this section shall be conveyed in accordance with subsection (g) of this section.

(e) The   shall be administered as follows:

(i) The   shall provide funding and administrative support for the  , including facilities, staff, equipment, and other support services, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations. Private funds accepted under the  's gift authority may be used to pay expenses of the  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(ii) The Director of the   may designate an Executive Director to coordinate the work of the  . The Executive Director shall report to the Director of the   and shall meet with all of the heads of the  ,  , and   on a   basis.

(iii) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  , but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(f) The   shall meet twice a year.

(g) On an   basis, and at other times as appropriate, the Chair or Co-Chairs of the   shall report to the President through the heads of the  ,  , and   progress in carrying out its mission, any recommendations it has, and its plans for  .

(h) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Director of the  , in consultation with the heads of the   and  , and in accordance with guidelines issued by  .

(i) The   shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless extended by the President.

 . 3

.

Interagency Cooperation to Advance the Arts and Humanities

. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies and   policy councils, including those listed below, or their designees, who must be senior officials, shall advise, coordinate with, and consider undertaking joint projects and initiatives with the heads of the  ,  , and  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to advance the policy objectives set forth in section 1 of this order:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ;

(xiii)  ;

( )  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi)  ;

(xvii) he  ;

(xviii)  ;

(xix)  ;

(xx)  ;

(xxi)  ;

(xxii)  ;

(xxiii)  ;

(xxiv)  ; and

(xxv)  .

(b) The heads of agencies described in  ) of title  , United States Code, are encouraged to comply with the provisions of this section.

(c) The heads of the  ,  , and   shall consider joint initiatives that would further the policy objectives set forth in section 1 of this order, and then may carry out those initiatives to the extent permitted by law.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
