1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Unifying DHS Intelligence Enterprise Act
.
2.
Homeland intelligence doctrine
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 121
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
210G.
Homeland intelligence doctrine
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, acting through the Chief Intelligence Officer of the Department, shall develop and disseminate written Department-wide guidance for the processing, analysis, production, and dissemination of homeland security information (as such term is defined in section 892) and terrorism information (as such term is defined in section 1016 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
6 U.S.C. 485
)).
(b)
Contents
The guidance required under subsection (a) shall, at a minimum, include the following:
(1)
A description of guiding principles and purposes of the Department’s intelligence enterprise.
(2)
A summary of the roles and responsibilities of each intelligence component of the Department and programs of the intelligence components of the Department in the processing, analysis, production, or dissemination of homeland security information and terrorism information.
(3)
Rules and regulations for the processing, analysis, and production of such information.
(4)
Rules and regulations for the dissemination of such information, including within the Department, among and between Federal departments and agencies, among and between State, local, tribal, and territorial governments, including law enforcement, and with foreign partners and the private sector.
(5)
An assessment and description of how the dissemination to the intelligence community (as such term is defined in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003(4)
)) and Federal law enforcement of homeland security information and terrorism information assists such entities in carrying out their respective missions.
(c)
Form
The guidance required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Annual review
For each of the five fiscal years beginning with the fiscal year that begins after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall conduct a review of the guidance required under subsection (a) and, as appropriate, revise such guidance.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 210F the following new item:
Sec. 210G. Homeland intelligence doctrine.
.
3.
Analysts for the Chief Intelligence Officer
Paragraph (1) of section 201(e) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 121(e)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
The Secretary shall also provide the Chief Intelligence Officer with a staff having appropriate expertise and experience to assist the Chief Intelligence Officer.
.
