1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act
.
2.
Inventory and evaluation of certain lands adjacent to Flatside Wilderness
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct an inventory and evaluation of certain lands, as generally depicted on the map titled
Flatside Wilderness Adjacent Inventory Areas
and dated November 30, 2017, to determine the suitability of such lands for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System.
(b)
Completion date
The inventory and evaluation required under subsection (a) shall be completed not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section.
(c)
Determination of suitability
(1)
Wilderness designation
If the Secretary of Agriculture determines that the lands inventoried and evaluated under subsection (a) are suitable for designation as wilderness—
(A)
the Secretary shall publish notice of such a determination in the Federal Register not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section; and
(B)
such lands shall be designated as wilderness and incorporated in the Flatside Wilderness under section 3(d) of the Arkansas Wilderness Act of 1984 (
Public Law 98–508
; 98 Stat. 2349) on the date that the Secretary publishes the notice described in subparagraph (A).
(2)
Lack of suitability
(A)
In general
If the Secretary of Agriculture determines that the lands inventoried and evaluated under subsection (a) are not suitable for designation as wilderness, the Secretary shall manage the lands in accordance with the applicable land management plan.
(B)
Ecological restoration
For purposes of ecological restoration (including the elimination of non-native species, removal of illegal, unused, or decommissioned roads, repair of skid tracks, and any other activities necessary to restore the natural ecosystems), the Secretary may use motorized equipment and mechanized transport in the lands described in subparagraph (A) until the date that is the earlier of the following:
(i)
The date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this section.
(ii)
The date on which the Secretary determines such lands are suitable for designation as wilderness.
(C)
Limitation
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary, to the maximum extent practicable, shall use the minimum tool or administrative practice necessary to accomplish ecological restoration with the least amount of adverse impact on wilderness character and resources.
3.
Additions to Flatside Wilderness
Section 3(d) of Arkansas Wilderness Act of 1984 (
Public Law 98–508
; 98 Stat. 2349) is amended by inserting
and certain land in the Ouachita National Forest, which comprise approximately 640 acres, as generally depicted as
Recommended Wilderness Additions
on the map titled
Revised Land and Resources Management Plan—Ouachita National Forest—Oklahoma and Arkansas
, dated September 23, 2005
after
1984
.
