1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
9–1–1 Fee Integrity Act
.
2.
Clarifying acceptable 9–1–1 obligations or expenditures
Section 6(f) of the Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999 (
47 U.S.C. 615a–1(f)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
as specified in the provision of State or local law adopting the fee or charge
and inserting
consistent with acceptable obligations or expenditures in the final rules issued pursuant to paragraph (3)
; and
(2)
after paragraph (2), by inserting the following new paragraph:
(3)
Acceptable obligation or expenditure
(A)
Regulations required
In order to prevent diversion of 9–1–1 taxes, fees, or charges, the Commission shall, within 180 days after date of the enactment of this paragraph, issue final rules designating purposes and functions that are acceptable obligations or expenditures by any State or taxing jurisdiction authorized to impose a tax, fee, or charge.
(B)
Purposes and functions
The purposes and functions described in subparagraph (A) include only those used solely for the support and implementation of a State or taxing jurisdiction 9–1–1 services and operational expenses of public safety answering points within a State or taxing jurisdiction.
(C)
Consultation required
The Commission shall consult with public safety organizations and State, local, and Tribal governments as part of any proceeding under this paragraph.
(D)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
9–1–1 services; E9–1–1 services; next generation 9–1–1 services
The terms
9–1–1 services
,
E9–1–1 services
, and
Next Generation 9–1–1 services
have the meaning given those terms in section 158(e) of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (
47 U.S.C. 942(e)
).
(ii)
State or taxing jurisdiction
The term
State or taxing jurisdiction
means a State, political subdivision thereof, Indian Tribe, or village or regional corporation serving a region established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (
43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.).
.
