1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Port of Whitman Economic Expansion Act
.
2.
Port of Whitman County
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Federal land
The term
Federal land
means the approximately 288 acres of land situated in Whitman County, Washington, contained within Tract D of Little Goose Lock and Dam.
(2)
Non-Federal land
The term
non-Federal land
means a tract or tracts of land owned by the Port of Whitman County, Washington, the fish and wildlife habitat value of which the Secretary of the Army determines, in coordination with the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife and the Secretary of the Interior acting through the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, to equal or exceed the fish and wildlife habitat value of the Federal land.
(b)
Land exchange
On conveyance by the Port of Whitman County to the United States of all right, title, and interest in and to the non-Federal land, the Secretary of the Army shall convey to the Port of Whitman County all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land.
(c)
Deeds
(1)
Deed to non-Federal land
The Secretary may only accept conveyance of the non-Federal land by warranty deed, as determined acceptable by the Secretary.
(2)
Deed to Federal land
The Secretary shall convey the Federal land to the Port of Whitman County by quitclaim deed and subject to any reservations, terms, and conditions the Secretary determines necessary to allow the United States to operate and maintain the Lower Snake River Project and to protect the interests of the United States.
(d)
Cash payment
If the appraised fair market value of the Federal land, as determined by the Secretary, exceeds the appraised fair market value of the non-Federal land, as determined by the Secretary, the Port of Whitman County shall make a cash payment to the United States reflecting the difference in the appraised fair market values.
(e)
Administrative expenses
The Port of Whitman County shall be responsible for the administrative costs of the transaction in accordance with section 2695 of title 10, United States Code.
(f)
Liability
The Port of Whitman County shall hold the United States harmless from any liability with respect to activities carried out on the Federal land on or after the date of the conveyance.
(g)
Applicability of real property screening provisions
Section 2696 of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply to the conveyance of the Federal land under this section.
(h)
Survey To obtain legal description
The exact acreage and legal description of the Federal land and non-Federal land shall be determined by a survey that is satisfactory to the Secretary.
