1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Thomas Jefferson Public Service Act of 2018
.
2.
Establishment of annual rate of pay of $1 for Members of Congress serving six consecutive terms in House or two consecutive terms in Senate
(a)
Establishment of annual rate of pay at $1
Section 601(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (
2 U.S.C. 4501
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
The annual rate of pay
and inserting
Except as provided in paragraph (3), the annual rate of pay
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
The annual rate of pay for an individual described in paragraph (1) shall be $1 for any pay period occurring—
(A)
in the case of an individual who is a Member of the House of Representatives, including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress, after the individual has served 6 consecutive full terms as a Member of the House of Representatives; or
(B)
in the case of an individual who is a Senator, after the individual has served 2 consecutive full terms as a Senator.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to terms of service occurring during the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress or any succeeding Congress.
3.
Exclusion of Member service for purposes of retirement
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, after an individual who is a Member of Congress has served for 6 consecutive full terms in the House of Representatives or 2 consecutive full terms in the Senate, any service of that individual as a Member of Congress after the end of that sixth or second term (as the case may be) shall not be creditable service for purposes of an annuity under chapter 83 or 84 of title 5, United States Code.
(b)
Contributions
With respect to any service as a Member of Congress excluded by operation of subsection (a), no individual or Government contributions shall be made on behalf of that Member under sections 8334, 8422, or 8423 of title 5, United States Code.
(c)
Effective date
This section shall apply with respect to terms of service as a Member of Congress occurring during the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress or any succeeding Congress.
(d)
Definition of Member of Congress
In this section, the term
Member of Congress
has the meaning given the term
Member
in section 8331(2) and 8401(20) (as the case may be) of title 5, United States Code.
