1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Drinking Water Affordability Act
.
2.
Amendments to Safe Drinking Water Act
(a)
National drinking water regulations
Section 1412(b)(9) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(9)
) is amended by striking the last sentence and inserting
Any revision of a national primary drinking water regulation shall be promulgated in accordance with this section, including paragraphs (3) through (6) of this subsection.
(b)
Enforcement of drinking water regulations
Section 1414(h)(1)(C) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300g–3(h)(1)(C)
) is amended by inserting
or management
after
the transfer of ownership
.
(c)
State revolving loan funds
(1)
Assistance for disadvantaged communities
Section 1452(d)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j–12(d)(2)
) is amended by striking
30
and inserting
35
.
(2)
Types of assistance
Section 1452(f)(1) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j–12(f)(1)
) is amended—
(A)
by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively;
(B)
by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph:
(C)
each loan will be fully amortized not later than 30 years after the completion of the project, except that in the case of a disadvantaged community (as defined in subsection (d)(3)) a State may provide an extended term for a loan, if the extended term—
(i)
terminates not later than the date that is 40 years after the date of project completion; and
(ii)
does not exceed the expected design life of the project;
; and
(C)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
1 year after completion of the project for which the loan was made
and all that follows through
design life of the project;
and inserting
18 months after completion of the project for which the loan was made;
.
(3)
Other authorized activities
Section 1452(k)(1)(C) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j–12(k)(1)(C)
) is amended by striking
for fiscal years 1996 and 1997
and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting
for fiscal years 2018 through 2024 to delineate, assess, update assessments, and undertake implementation activities with respect to source water protection areas in accordance with the requirements of a program approved under section 1453, excluding any activity required to be conducted under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.).
.
(d)
Exemption from Federal cross-Cutting requirements
Part E of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
1459C.
Exemption from Federal cross-cutting requirements
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator shall exempt a public water system that receives financial assistance pursuant to section 1452 from a Federal cross-cutting requirement if the Administrator determines that the State in which the public water system is located has in effect a requirement which is not less stringent than the Federal cross-cutting requirement.
.
(e)
Definition of Federal cross-Cutting requirement
Section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300f
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(17)
Federal cross-cutting requirement
The term
Federal cross-cutting requirement
means a requirement of a Federal law or regulation, compliance with which is a condition on receipt of a loan or grant under this title, that, if applied to projects and activities receiving such financial assistance, would be redundant with a requirement of an applicable State or local law.
.
3.
Reports
(a)
State loan fund administration and application process
(1)
Review
The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall conduct a review on best practices for—
(A)
streamlining the application process for public water systems to receive loans or loan guarantees from a State drinking water treatment revolving loan fund; and
(B)
efficient administration of State drinking water treatment revolving loan funds.
(2)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall submit to Congress, and make available to States, a report on the review conducted under paragraph (1), including any recommendations.
(b)
GAO Report
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall prepare and submit to Congress a report containing—
(1)
the results of a study of cost-effective and economically feasible rehabilitation or replacement of drinking water infrastructure to meet the goals of the Safe Drinking Water Act; and
(2)
an assessment of barriers that preclude communities from using materials and technologies studied pursuant to paragraph (1).
