1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Reforms to Encourage VA Meaningful Progress Act of 2017
or the
REVAMP Act
.
2.
Evaluations of organizational structure of Veterans Health Administration and realignment of Veterans Integrated Service Network
(a)
Organizational Structure
(1)
Process
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, acting through the Under Secretary for Health, shall implement a process to consistently evaluate reviews described in paragraph (3).
(2)
Matters included
The process under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Identification of the officials and the offices of the Department of Veterans Affairs responsible for evaluating and approving, and ensuring the implementation of, recommendations made by reviews described in paragraph (3), including—
(i)
the roles of each such official and office; and
(ii)
a description of how decisions are made and documented to approve such implementation.
(B)
A description of how recommendations made by reviews described in paragraph (3) should be evaluated.
(C)
A description of how timelines should be established to ensure recommendations are evaluated and implemented in a timely manner and metrics to assess the progress made with respect to such implementation.
(3)
Reviews described
The reviews described in this paragraph are reviews of the organizational structure of the Veterans Health Administration conducted by the Secretary, the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Comptroller General of the United States, the Commission on Care established by section 202 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (
Public Law 113–146
; 128 Stat. 1773), or by an independent entity, as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(4)
First use
The Under Secretary shall use the process under paragraph (1) to evaluate the results of the evaluation conducted under subsection (b)(1). The Under Secretary shall make any required improvements to such process based on the lessons learned by the Under Secretary resulting from such use.
(b)
Veterans Integrated Service Network
(1)
Evaluation
Consistent with the report of the Comptroller General of the United States titled
VA Health Care: Processes to Evaluate, Implement, and Monitor Organizational Structure Changes Needed
(GAO–16–803), the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Health, shall conduct an evaluation of the Veterans Integrated Service Network, including with respect to—
(A)
the implementation by the Secretary of realignments to such Network; and
(B)
identifying deficiencies to such Network that require corrective action.
(2)
Assessment and implementation
In accordance with subsection (a)(4), the Under Secretary shall use the process implemented under subsection (a) to assess the results of the evaluation conducted under paragraph (1) and to implement changes and other actions to improve the Veterans Integrated Service Network.
(c)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that includes a description of—
(1)
the process implemented under subsection (a)(1);
(2)
the deficiencies identified under paragraph (1) of subsection (b); and
(3)
how the Under Secretary will carry out paragraph (2) of such subsection.
(d)
Prohibition on new appropriations
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act, and this Act shall be carried out using amounts otherwise made available for such purposes.
