1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing General Aviation and Commercial Charter Air Carrier Service Act of 2017
.
2.
Web-based secure flight cost and feasibility study
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall conduct a study to determine the cost and feasibility of establishing web-based access to Secure Flight for commercial charter air carriers.
3.
Screening in areas other than passenger terminals
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration is authorized to provide screening services to a commercial charter air carrier in areas other than primary passenger terminals of airports upon the request of such carrier.
(b)
Request
A commercial charter air carrier that wants screening services to be provided to such carrier in an area other than a primary passenger terminal shall request the Federal Security Director for the airport at which such services are requested.
(c)
Availability
A Federal Security Director may elect to provide screening services under this section if such services are available.
(d)
Agreements
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall enter into an agreement with a commercial charter air carrier for compensation from such carrier requesting the use of screening services under this section for all reasonable costs in addition to overtime costs that are incurred in the provision of such services.
4.
Report on general aviation security and select aviation security topics
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, in consultation with the Aviation Security Advisory Committee, shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate an implementation plan, including an implementation schedule, for the following recommendations adopted by the Aviation Security Advisory Committee:
(1)
The recommendation regarding general aviation access to Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, as adopted on February 17, 2015.
(2)
The recommendation regarding the vetting of persons seeking flight training in the United States, as adopted on July 28, 2016.
(3)
Any other such recommendations relevant to the security of general aviation adopted before the date of the enactment of this Act.
5.
Designated staffing for general aviation
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration is authorized to designate not fewer than one full time employee of the Administration to be responsible for engagement with general aviation stakeholders and manage issues related to general aviation.
