1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Shiloh National Military Park Boundary Adjustment and Parker’s Crossroads Battlefield Designation Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Affiliated area
The term
affiliated area
means the Parker’s Crossroads Battlefield established as an affiliated area of the National Park System under section 4.
(2)
Park
The term
Park
means Shiloh National Military Park, a unit of the National Park System.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
3.
Areas to be added to Shiloh National Military Park
(a)
Additional areas
The boundary of Shiloh National Military Park is modified to include the areas that are generally depicted on the map entitled
Shiloh National Military Park, Proposed Boundary Adjustment
, numbered 304/80,011, and dated July 2014, as follows:
(1)
Fallen Timbers Battlefield.
(2)
Russell House Battlefield.
(3)
Davis Bridge Battlefield.
(b)
Acquisition authority
The Secretary may acquire lands described in subsection (a) by donation, purchase from willing sellers with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
(c)
Administration
Any lands acquired under this section shall be administered as part of the Park.
4.
Establishment of affiliated area
(a)
In general
Parker’s Crossroads Battlefield in the State of Tennessee is hereby established as an affiliated area of the National Park System.
(b)
Description
The affiliated area shall consist of the area generally depicted within the
Proposed Boundary
on the map entitled
Parker’s Crossroads Battlefield, Proposed Boundary
, numbered 903/80,073, and dated July 2014.
(c)
Administration
The affiliated area shall be managed in accordance with this Act and all laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System.
(d)
Management entity
The City of Parkers Crossroads and the Tennessee Historical Commission shall jointly be the management entity for the affiliated area.
(e)
Cooperative agreements
The Secretary may provide technical assistance and enter into cooperative agreements with the management entity for the purpose of providing financial assistance with marketing, marking, interpretation, and preservation of the affiliated area.
(f)
Limited role of the secretary
Nothing in this Act authorizes the Secretary to acquire property at the affiliated area or to assume overall financial responsibility for the operation, maintenance, or management of the affiliated area.
(g)
General management plan
(1)
In general
The Secretary, in consultation with the management entity, shall develop a general management plan for the affiliated area. The plan shall be prepared in accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.
(2)
Transmittal
Not later than 3 years after the date that funds are made available for this Act, the Secretary shall provide a copy of the completed general management to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
5.
Private Property Protection
(a)
No use of condemnation
The Secretary of the Interior may not acquire by condemnation any land or interests in land under this Act or for the purposes of this Act.
(b)
Written consent of owner
No non-Federal property may be included in the Shiloh National Military Park without the written consent of the owner.
(c)
No buffer zone created
Nothing in this Act, the establishment of the Shiloh National Military Park, or the management plan for the Shiloh National Military Park shall be construed to create buffer zones outside of the Park. That activities or uses can be seen, heard, or detected from areas within the Shiloh National Military shall not preclude, limit, control, regulate, or determine the conduct or management of activities or uses outside of the Park.
