1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Tools On Our Local Streets to Rehabilitate Communities Act of 2018
or the
TOOLS to Rehabilitate Communities Act of 2018
.
2.
Strengthening community development partnerships with nonprofit organizations
Section 105(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5305(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (25)(D), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (26), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(27)
creating or strengthening partnerships with nonprofit organizations that provide tools, equipment, or other resources to other nonprofit or volunteer organizations assisting in the completion of a community development, revitalization, or rehabilitation project authorized under this subsection.
.
3.
Increasing awareness
For each fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall provide notice to grant applicants and awardees under section 103 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5303
) that awards provided under title I of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.) may be used to create or strengthen partnerships with nonprofit organizations that provide tools, equipment, or other resources to other nonprofit or volunteer organizations that assist in the completion of a community development, revitalization, or rehabilitation project authorized under such section 103.
4.
Identifying opportunities to increase access to community development partnerships with non-profit
organization
Not later than the end of the first fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall issue a report discussing—
(1)
opportunities in existence as of the date of the report for Federal, State, and local governments to partner with nonprofit organizations to complete community development, revitalization, and rehabilitation projects under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.); and
(2)
existing barriers and challenges with respect to those projects.
