1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding Access to Treatment Act
.
2.
Expanding access under the Medicare program to addiction treatment in Federally qualified health centers and rural health clinics
(a)
Federally qualified health centers
Section 1834(o) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395m(o)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
Additional payments for certain FQHCs with practitioners receiving DATA 2000 certification
(A)
In general
In the case of a Federally qualified health center with respect to which, beginning January 1, 2019, Federally-qualified health center services (as defined in section 1861(aa)(3)) are furnished by a health care practitioner who first receives on or after such date a registration or waiver under section 303(g) of the Controlled Substances Act to prescribe or dispense methadone, buprenorphine, or suboxone for the purpose of maintenance or detoxification treatment, the Secretary shall, subject to availability of funds under subparagraph (B), make a payment (in accordance with such timing, method, and procedures as specified by the Secretary) to such Federally qualified health center in an amount determined by the Secretary, based on an approximation of the cost to receive training for purposes of such registration or waiver, as applicable. For purposes of the previous sentence, a Federally-qualified health center shall apply for a payment described in such sentence at such time and in such manner as specified by the Secretary and may apply for such a payment for each practitioner furnishing such services at such center who is described in such sentence.
(B)
Funding
For purposes of making payments under this paragraph, there are appropriated, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $6,000,000, which shall remain available until expended.
.
(b)
Rural health clinic
Section 1833 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395l
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating the subsection (z) relating to medical review of spinal subluxation services as subsection (aa); and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(bb)
Additional payments for certain rural health clinics with practitioners receiving DATA 2000 certification
(1)
In general
In the case of a rural health clinic with respect to which, beginning January 1, 2019, rural health clinic services (as defined in section 1861(aa)(1)) are furnished by a health care practitioner who first receives on or after such date a registration or waiver under section 303(g) of the Controlled Substances Act to prescribe or dispense methadone, buprenorphine, or suboxone for the purpose of maintenance or detoxification treatment, the Secretary shall, subject to availability of funds under subparagraph (B), make a payment (in accordance with such timing, method, and procedures as specified by the Secretary) to such rural health clinic in an amount determined by the Secretary, based on an approximation of the cost to receive training for purposes of such registration or waiver, as applicable. For purposes of the previous sentence, a rural health clinic shall apply for a payment described in such sentence at such time and in such manner as specified by the Secretary and may apply for such a payment for each practitioner furnishing such services at such clinic who is described in such sentence.
(2)
Funding
For purposes of making payments under this subsection, there are appropriated, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000, which shall remain available until expended.
.
