1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Opioid Abuse Prevention Act
.
2.
Department of Veterans Affairs participation in national network of State-based prescription drug monitoring programs
(a)
Memorandum of understanding
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the executive director of a national network of State-based prescription drug monitoring programs under which Department of Veterans Affairs health care providers shall query such network to support the safe and effective prescribing of controlled substances to covered patients. Under such memorandum of understanding—
(1)
Department health care providers practicing in a State that participates in such network shall query such network in accordance with the agreement between that State’s prescription drug monitoring program and such network in accordance with applicable Veterans Health Administration policies; and
(2)
Department health care providers practicing in States that do not participate in such network shall query such network through the drug monitoring program of the participating State that is in closest proximity to the State where the provider is practicing.
(b)
Covered patients
For purposes of this section, a covered patient is a patient who—
(1)
receives a prescription for a controlled substance for a period of 90 days or longer; and
(2)
is not receiving palliative care or enrolled in hospice care.
(c)
Exception
The memorandum of understanding under subsection (a) shall provide for an exception to ensure that Department health care providers are not obligated to comply with the provisions of the memorandum of understanding if such provisions are in violations of applicable State law.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
controlled substance
has the meaning given such term in paragraph (6) of section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802(6)
).
(2)
The term
national network of State-based prescription monitoring programs
means an interconnected nationwide system that facilitates the transfer of State prescription drug monitoring program data across State lines.
