1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Juab County Conveyance Act of 2017
.
2.
Land conveyance, Nephi Work Center, Juab County, Utah
(a)
Conveyance required
Subject to valid existing rights, if Juab County, Utah, submits a written request to the Secretary of Agriculture not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey, without consideration and by quitclaim deed, to the County all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcel of National Forest System land, including improvements thereon, described in subsection (b).
(b)
Description of land
(1)
In general
The parcel of National Forest System land and improvements to be conveyed under subsection (a) is the Nephi Work Center at 740 South Main Street, Nephi, Utah, which consists of approximately 2.61 acres within Nephi Plat B Block of the Nephi Townsite Survey as Parcels #XA545-1-1-1-1, #XA545-1-2-1, and #XA00-0545-2, and is identified on the map entitled
Nephi Plat B
and dated May 6, 1981.
(2)
Availability of map
The map referred to in paragraph (1) shall be kept on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate office of the Forest Service. The Secretary may correct minor errors in the map.
(c)
Survey
The exact acreage and legal description of the National Forest System land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
(d)
Costs of conveyance
As a condition for the conveyance under subsection (a), the County shall pay the reasonable costs incurred by the Secretary for—
(1)
the survey required by subsection (c); and
(2)
any environmental or administrative analysis required by law related to the conveyance.
(e)
Additional terms and conditions
The conveyance under subsection (a) is subject to any other terms and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(f)
Time for completion of conveyance
The Secretary shall complete the conveyance under subsection (a) not later than one year after the date on which the County submits the written request described in such subsection.
