1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prohibition of United Nations Taxation Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds that—
(1)
in 1948, the average United States family with children paid only three percent of its income in Federal taxes;
(2)
in 2015, the average American paid almost 20 percent of its income in Federal taxes;
(3)
United Nations officials have made numerous and repeated proposals to provide financing for the United Nations outside the scrutiny of member states of the United Nations, including borrowing from international financial institutions, assuming control of bonds issued by member states, and imposing taxes on an extensive range of transactions, goods, and services;
(4)
the 1994
Human Development Report
of the United Nations Development Program stated that
it is appropriate that the proceeds of an international tax be devoted to international purposes and be placed at the disposal of international institutions.
;
(5)
on January 14, 1996, United Nations Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali stated that an international tax would mean that
he would not be under the daily financial will of the member states.
;
(6)
the 2012
World Economic and Social Survey
of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs examined the
feasibility of new financing,
specifically examining two sources:
taxes levied on international transactions and/or taxes that are internationally concerted … and revenues from global resources.
;
(7)
each year the United States gives approximately $8 billion in mandatory payments and voluntary contributions to the United Nations and its affiliated organizations;
(8)
the United Nations and its organizations are replete with mismanagement, waste, corruption, and inefficiency, which cost United States taxpayers millions of dollars each year;
(9)
the power to tax is an attribute of sovereignty;
(10)
the United Nations does not have the attributes of sovereignty and is not a sovereign power; and
(11)
the United Nations has no legal authority to impose taxes on United States citizens.
3.
Prohibitions regarding taxation and borrowing
(a)
Prohibition on imposition of global taxation or multilateral bank borrowing
The United States shall not pay any voluntary or assessed contribution to the United Nations or any of its specialized or affiliated agencies (including the United Nations Development Program) if the United Nations—
(1)
attempts to implement or impose any taxation or fee on any United States person; or
(2)
attempts to borrow funds from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (commonly referred to as the
World Bank
), the International Monetary Fund, or any other similar or regional international financial institution.
(b)
Prohibition on continued development and promotion of global taxation proposals
The United States shall not pay any voluntary or assessed contribution to the United Nations or any of its specialized or affiliated agencies (including the United Nations Development Program) unless the President certifies in writing to the Congress not less than 15 days before such payment that the United Nations or any of its specialized or affiliated agencies is not engaged in any effort to develop, advocate, promote, or publicize any proposal concerning taxation or fees on any United States person in order to raise revenue for the United Nations or any of its specialized or affiliated agencies.
(c)
Statutory construction
Payments prohibited under this Act include any disbursement to the United Nations or to any of its specialized or affiliated agencies pursuant to any obligation agreed to by the United States on or before the date of the enactment of this Act.
4.
Definitions
As used in this Act:
(1)
Person
The term
person
has the meaning given such term in
section 7701(a)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (
26 U.S.C. 7701(a)(1)
).
(2)
Taxation or fees on any United States person
The term
taxation or fees on any United States person
includes any tax or fee assessed against any United States person on a per capita basis or on a transaction or user basis, including any tax or fee on international air travel, foreign exchange transactions, the mails, or extraction or use of natural resources.
5.
Effective date
This Act shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
