1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
School Security and Facilities Enhancement to Yield Results Act of 2018
or the
School SAFETY Results Act of 2018
.
2.
Exclusions from income of certain amounts received as law enforcement pensions by volunteer school resource officers
(a)
In general
The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 139G the following new section:
139H.
Certain amounts received as law enforcement pensions by volunteer school resource officers
(a)
In general
In the case of a retired law enforcement officer, gross income shall not include amounts received as a law enforcement pension.
(b)
Limitations
The amount excluded from gross income under subsection (a) with respect to an individual for a taxable year shall not exceed the lesser of—
(1)
the product of $10, multiplied by the number of hours such individual spends performing qualified school resource service for such individual during such year, and
(2)
$2,000.
(c)
Definitions
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Law enforcement pension
The term
law enforcement pension
means a pension received by an individual by reason of service with a State or local agency as a law enforcement officer.
(2)
Retired law enforcement officer
The term
retired law enforcement officer
means an individual who is separated from service in good standing from service with a State or local agency as a law enforcement officer.
(3)
Qualified school resource service
The term
qualified school resource service
means volunteer service as a school resource officer at an elementary school or secondary school (as such terms are defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for part III of subchapter B of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 139G the following new item:
Sec. 139H. Certain amounts received as law enforcement pensions by volunteer school resource
officers.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
