1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Helping Americans Seek Treatment Act of 2018
.
2.
Treatment referral services of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
(a)
Increasing awareness about treatment referral service
Section 501(d) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290aa(d)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (24)(E), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (25), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(26)
conduct a national public awareness campaign to increase awareness about the treatment referral routing service of the Administration, including the toll-free telephone number for accessing such service and the types of information provided through such service to address substance use disorders.
.
(b)
Pre-Arrest referral programs
Part A of title V of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting after section 506A of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 290aa–5a
) the following:
506B.
Pre-arrest referral programs for individuals with substance use disorders
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall incorporate into the programs and services of the Administration, including the treatment referral routing service of the Administration, information on pre-arrest referral programs.
(b)
Pre-Arrest referral program defined
The term
pre-arrest referral program
means a program operated by a local law enforcement agency which permits individuals with substance use disorders to seek assistance at the law enforcement agency and provides assurances to such individuals that they will not be subject to criminal penalties related to such individual’s possession and use of controlled substances, and which may include—
(1)
the provision of information related to treatment centers for individuals with substance use disorders, including such centers which provide financial assistance to individuals who are not covered by a health insurance policy;
(2)
case management and follow-up support provided by law enforcement officers to individuals who participate in the program; and
(3)
outreach to educate individuals with substance use disorders and their families about resources and treatments options.
.
