1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Assisting States’ Implementation of Plans of Safe Care Act
.
2.
Assisting States with implementation of plans of safe care
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall provide written guidance and, if appropriate, technical assistance to support States in complying with, and implementing, subsections (b)(2)(B)(iii) and (d)(18) of section 106 of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (
42 U.S.C. 5106a
) in order to promote better protections for young children and family-centered responses.
(b)
Requirements
The guidance and technical assistance shall—
(1)
enhance States’ understanding of requirements and flexibilities under the law, including clarifying key terms;
(2)
address State-identified challenges with developing, implementing, and monitoring plans of safe care;
(3)
disseminate best practices related to developing and implementing plans of safe care, including differential response, collaboration and coordination, and identification and delivery of services, while recognizing needs of different populations and varying community approaches across States;
(4)
support collaboration between health care providers, social service agencies, public health agencies, and the child welfare system, to promote a family-centered treatment approach;
(5)
prevent separation and support reunification of families if in the best interests of the child;
(6)
recommend treatment approaches for serving infants, pregnant women, and postpartum women whose infants may be affected by substance use that are designed to keep infants with their mothers and families whenever appropriate, including recommendations to encourage pregnant women to receive health and other support services during pregnancy;
(7)
support State efforts to develop technology systems to manage and monitor implementation of plans of safe care; and
(8)
help States improve the long-term safety and well-being of young children and their families.
(c)
Construction
The guidance and technical assistance shall not be construed to amend the requirements of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (
42 U.S.C. 5101
et seq.).
(d)
Definition
For purposes of this section, the term
State
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (
42 U.S.C. 5101
note).
