1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
10 Million Solar Roofs Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
there is enormous potential for increasing the quantity of electricity produced in the United
States
from distributed solar photovoltaic systems;
(2)
as the market for solar technology continues to grow, the industry will achieve economies of scale
that make the cost of solar-generated electricity broadly competitive with
the cost of electricity from fossil fuels;
(3)
producing electricity from distributed solar photovoltaic systems helps to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and does not result in emissions of harmful air pollutants
such as mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides;
(4)
increasing the quantity of electricity generated from domestic renewable energy sources enhances
national energy security;
(5)
investments in solar energy and other renewable energy sources lead to the creation of green jobs
that provide substantial economic benefits;
(6)
the United States solar industry employed more than 140,000 people spread across all 50 States in
2013, which is a 53 percent increase over 2010, according to the Solar
Foundation; and
(7)
the solar industry is investing almost $15,000,000,000 in the United States economy annually,
according to GTM Research and the Solar Energy Industries Association.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Photovoltaic system
The term
photovoltaic system
includes—
(A)
solar panels;
(B)
roof support structures;
(C)
inverters;
(D)
an energy storage system, if the energy storage system is integrated with the photovoltaic system;
and
(E)
any other hardware necessary for the installation of a photovoltaic system.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
4.
Rebates for purchase and installation of photovoltaic systems
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a program under which the Secretary shall provide rebates to eligible
individuals
or entities for the purchase and installation of photovoltaic systems for
residential and commercial properties in order to install, over the
10-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, at least an
additional 10,000,000 photovoltaic systems in the United States (as
compared to
the number of photovoltaic systems installed in the United States as
of the date
of enactment of this Act) with a cumulative capacity of at least 60,000
megawatts.
(b)
Eligibility
(1)
In general
To be eligible for a rebate under this section—
(A)
the recipient of the rebate shall be a homeowner, business, nonprofit entity, or State or local
government that purchased and installed a photovoltaic system for a
property located in the United States; and
(B)
the recipient of the rebate shall meet such other eligibility criteria as are determined to be
appropriate by the Secretary.
(2)
Other entities
After public review and comment, the Secretary may identify other individuals or entities located
in the United States that qualify for a rebate under this section.
(c)
Amount
Subject to subsection (d)(2), the amount of a rebate provided to an eligible individual or entity
for
the purchase and installation of a photovoltaic system for a property
under this section shall be equal to the lesser of—
(1)
15 percent of the initial capital costs for purchasing and installing the photovoltaic system,
including costs for hardware, permitting and other
soft costs
, and installation; or
(2)
$10,000.
(d)
Intermediate report
As soon as practicable after the end of the 5-year period beginning on the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of
Congress, and publish on the website of the Department of Energy, a report
that describes—
(1)
the number of photovoltaic systems for
residential and commercial properties purchased and installed with rebates
provided under this section; and
(2)
any steps the Secretary will take to ensure that the goal of the installation of an additional
10,000,000 photovoltaic systems in the United States is achieved by 2024.
(e)
Relationship to other law
The authority provided under this section shall be in addition to any other authority under which
credits or other types of financial assistance are provided for
installation of a photovoltaic system for a property.
5.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this Act.
