1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans' Educational Transition Act
of 2013
.
2.
Approval of courses of
education provided by public institutions of higher education for purposes of
All-Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program and Post-9/11 Educational
Assistance conditional on in-State tuition rate for veterans
(a)
In
general
Section 3679 of title
38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
(c)
(1)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter and subject to paragraphs (3) through (5), the Secretary shall
disapprove a course of education provided by a public institution of higher
education to a covered individual pursuing a course of education with
educational assistance under chapter 30 or 33 of this title while living in the
State in which the public institution of higher education is located if the
institution charges tuition and fees for that course for the covered individual
at a rate that is higher than the rate the institution charges for tuition and
fees for that course for residents of the State in which the institution is
located, regardless of the covered individual’s State of residence.
(2)
For purposes of this subsection, a
covered individual is any individual as follows:
(A)
A veteran who was discharged or
released from a period of not fewer than 180 days of service in the active
military, naval, or air service less than two years before the date of
enrollment in the course concerned.
(B)
An individual who is entitled to
assistance under section 3311(b)(9) or 3319 of this title by virtue of such
individual's relationship to a veteran described in subparagraph (A).
(3)
It shall not be grounds to disapprove a
course of education under paragraph (1) if a public institution of higher
education requires a covered individual pursuing a course of education at the
institution to demonstrate an intent to establish residency in the State in
which the institution is located in order to be charged tuition and fees for
that course at a rate that is equal to or less than the rate the institution
charges for tuition and fees for that course for residents of the State.
(4)
The Secretary may waive such
requirements of paragraph (1) as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(5)
Disapproval under paragraph (1) shall apply
only with respect to educational assistance under chapters 30 and 33 of this
title.
.
(b)
Effective
date
Subsection (c) of
section 3679
of title 38, United States Code (as added by subsection (a) of
this section) shall apply with respect to educational assistance provided for
pursuit of programs of education during academic terms that begin after July 1,
2015.
