Section 1. National Contingency Plan. (a) The National Contingency Plan, hereinafter referred to as the   and which was originally published pursuant to Section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C.  ), shall be amended to contain the implementing procedures for the coordination of response actions to releases of hazardous substances into the environment.

(b) The   shall contain a concept of a national response team composed of representatives of appropriate Executive agencies for the coordination of response actions. The national response team shall, in addition to representatives of other appropriate agencies, include representatives of the following:  ,  ,    ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(c) The responsibility for the amendment of the   and all of the other functions vested in the President by Section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of  , hereinafter referred to as the Act (42 U.S.C. 9605), is delegated to  .

(d) In accord with Section 111(h)(1) of the Act and Section 311(f)(5) of  , as amended (33 U.S.C. 1321(f)(5)), the following shall be among those designated in the   as   trustees for natural resources:

(1) Secretary of  .

(2) Secretary of the  .

(3) Secretary of  .

(4) Secretary of  .

(e) Amendments to the   shall be coordinated with members of the national response team prior to publication for notice and comment. Amendments shall also be coordinated with   and   in order to avoid inconsistent or duplicative requirements in the emergency planning responsibilities of those agencies.

(f) All amendments to the  , whether in proposed or final form, shall be subject to review and approval by the Director of  .

 . 2.  . (a) The functions vested in the President by the first sentence of Section 104(b) of the Act relating to "illness, disease, or complaints thereof" are delegated to the Secretary of   who shall, in accord with Section 104(i) of the Act, perform those functions through  .

(b)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 101(24) of the Act, to the extent they require a determination by the President that "permanent relocation of residents and businesses and community facilities" is included within the terms "remedy" or "remedial action" as defined in  ) of the Act, are delegated to the Director of  .

(2) The functions vested in the President by Section 104(a) of the Act, to the extent they require permanent relocation of residents, businesses, and community facilities or temporary evacuation and housing of threatened individuals not otherwise provided for, are delegated to the Director of  .

(c) The functions vested in the President by   (a) and (b) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of   with respect to releases from   facilities or vessels, including vessels owned or bare-boat chartered and operated.

(d) Subject to subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 101(24) and 104 (a) and (b) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating, hereinafter referred to as  , with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone,   waters, ports, and harbors.

(e) Subject to subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 101(24) and 104 (a) and (b) of the Act are delegated to  , hereinafter referred to as the Administrator.

(f) The functions vested in the President by   (c), (d), (f), (g), and (h) of the Act are delegated to  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the Administrator in order to carry out the functions delegated to them by subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this Section. The exercise of authority under Section 104(h) of the Act shall be subject to the approval of  .

(g) The functions vested in the President by Section 104(e)(2)(c) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator; all other functions vested in the President by Section 104(e) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Director of  , and  , in order to carry out the functions delegated to them by this Section.

 . 3. Abatement Action. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 106(a) of the Act are delegated to   with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone,   waters, ports, and habors.

(b) Subject to subsection (a) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 106(a) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

 . 4. Liability. (a) The function vested in the President by Section 107(c)(1)(C) of the Act is delegated to the Secretary of  .

(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(c)(3) of the Act are delegated to   with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone,   waters, ports, and harbors.

(c) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 107(c)(3) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

(d) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(f) of the Act are delegated to each of the   trustees for natural resources set forth in Section l(d) of this   for resources under their trusteeship.

 . 5.  . (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(k)(4)(B) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of the  . The Administrator will provide the Secretary with such technical information and assistance as the Administrator may have available.

(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 108(a) of the Act are delegated to  . Notwithstanding Section l(d) of Executive Order No.  , the regulations issued pursuant to this authority shall be issued in accordance with that  . The   shall be responsible, in accord with Section 109 of the Act, for the enforcement of civil penalties for violations of the regulations issued under Section 108(a) of the Act.

(c) The functions vested in the President by Section 108(b) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of   with respect to all transportation related facilities, including any pipeline, motor vehicle, rolling stock, or aircraft.

(d) Subject to subsection (c) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 108(b) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

 . 6.   and Notice to Injured. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 110(e) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 111(g) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of   with respect to releases from   facilities or vessels, including vessels owned or bare-boat chartered and operated.

(c) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 111(g) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

 . 7. Management of   and Claims. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 111(a) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator, subject to the provisions of this Section and applicable provisions of this  .

(b) The Administrator shall transfer, to transfer appropriation accounts for other agencies, from  , out of sums appropriated, such amounts as the Administrator may determine necessary to carry out the purposes of the Act. These allocations shall be consistent with the President's  , within the amounts approved by the  , unless a revised allocation is approved by the Director of  .

(c) The Administrator shall chair a budget task force composed of representatives of agencies having responsibilities under this   or the Act. The Administrator shall also, as part of the budget request for  , submit a budget for   which is based on recommended allocations developed by the budget task force. The Administrator may prescribe reporting and other forms, procedures, and guidelines to be used by the agencies of   in preparing the budget request.

(d) The Administrator and each agency head to whom funds are allocated pursuant to this Section, with respect to funds allocated to them, are authorized in accordance with Section 111(f) of the Act to designate   officials who may obligate such funds.

(e) The functions vested in the President by Section 112 of the Act are delegated to the Administrator for all claims presented pursuant to Section 111.

 . 8.  . (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this  , any representation pursuant to or under this   in any judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings shall be by or through the Attorney General. The conduct and control of all litigation arising under the Act shall be the responsibility of the Attorney General.

(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this  , the President's authority under the Act to require the Attorney General to commence litigation is retained by the President.

(c) The functions vested in the President by Section 301 of the Act are delegated as follows:

(1) With respect to subsection (a), to the Administrator in consultation with the Secretary of the  .

(2) With respect to subsection (b), to the Secretary of the  .

(3) With respect to subsection (c), to the Secretary of the  .

(4) With respect to subsection (f), to the Administrator.

(d) The Attorney General shall manage and coordinate the study provided for in Section 301(e) of the Act.

(e) The performance of any function under this   shall be done in consultation with interested agencies represented on the national response team, as well as with any other interested agency.

(f) Certain functions vested in the President by the Act which have been delegated or assigned by this   may be redelegated to the head of any agency with his consent; those functions which may be redelegated are those set forth in  ,  ,  ), 4(c), and 6(c) of this  .

(g) Executive Order No.   of  , is revoked.
