Part 1 Goals, Direction, Duties and Responsibilities With Respect to  

1.1 Goals.   intelligence effort shall provide the President and   with the necessary information on which to base decisions concerning the conduct and development of foreign, defense and economic policy, and the protection of   national interests from foreign security threats. All departments and agencies shall cooperate fully to fulfill this goal.

(a) Maximum emphasis should be given to fostering analytical competition among appropriate elements of  .

(b) All means, consistent with applicable   law and this  , and with full consideration of the rights of   persons, shall be used to develop intelligence information for the President and  . A balanced approach between technical collection efforts and other means should be maintained and encouraged.

(c) Special emphasis should be given to detecting and countering espionage and other threats and activities directed by foreign intelligence services against  , or   corporations, establishments, or persons.

(d) To the greatest extent possible consistent with applicable   law and this  , and with full consideration of the rights of   persons, all agencies and departments should seek to ensure full and free exchange of information in order to derive maximum benefit from   intelligence effort.

1.2  .

(a) Purpose.   ( ) was established by the National Security Act of   to advise the President with respect to the integration of domestic, foreign and military policies relating to the national security. The   shall act as the highest Executive Branch entity that provides review of, guidance for and direction to the conduct of all national foreign intelligence, counterintelligence, and special activities, and attendant policies and programs.

(b) Committees. The   shall establish such committees as may be necessary to carry out its functions and responsibilities under this  . The  , or a committee established by it, shall consider and submit to the President a policy recommendation, including all dissents, on each special activity and shall review proposals for other sensitive intelligence operations.

1.3  .

(a) Establishment and Duties. The Director of   shall establish such boards, councils, or groups as required for the purpose of obtaining advice from within   concerning:

(1) Production, review and coordination of national foreign intelligence;

(2) Priorities for   budget;

(3) Interagency exchanges of foreign intelligence information;

(4) Arrangements with foreign governments on intelligence matters;

(5) Protection of intelligence sources and methods;

(6) Activities of common concern; and

(7) Such other matters as may be referred by the Director of  .

(b) Membership. Advisory groups established pursuant to this section shall be chaired by the Director of   or his designated representative and shall consist of senior representatives from organizations within   and from departments or agencies containing such organizations, as designated by the Director of  .   for consideration of substantive intelligence matters will include representatives of organizations involved in the collection, processing and analysis of intelligence. A senior representative of the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for  , and     shall be invited to participate in any group which deals with other than substantive intelligence matters.

1.4  . The agencies within the   shall, in accordance with applicable   law and with the other provisions of this  , conduct intelligence activities necessary for the conduct of foreign relations and the protection of the national security of  , including:

(a) Collection of information needed by the President,  , the Secretaries of State and  , and other   officials for the performance of their duties and responsibilities;

(b) Production and dissemination of intelligence;

(c) Collection of information concerning, and the conduct of activities to protect against, intelligence activities directed against  , international terrorist and international narcotics activities, and other hostile activities directed against   by foreign powers, organizations, persons, and their agents;

(d) Special activities;

(e) Administrative and support activities within   and abroad necessary for the performance of authorized activities; and

(f) Such other intelligence activities as the President may direct from time to time.

1.5 Director of  . In order to discharge the duties and responsibilities prescribed by law, the Director of   shall be responsible directly to the President and the   and shall:

(a) Act as the primary adviser to the President and the   on national foreign intelligence and provide the President and other officials in   with national foreign intelligence;

(b) Develop such objectives and guidance for   as will enhance capabilities for responding to expected future needs for national foreign intelligence;

(c) Promote the development and maintenance of services of common concern by designated intelligence organizations on behalf of  ;

(d) Ensure implementation of special activities;

(e) Formulate policies concerning foreign intelligence and counterintelligence arrangements with foreign governments, coordinate foreign intelligence and counterintelligence relationships between agencies of   and the intelligence or internal security services of foreign governments, and establish procedures governing the conduct of liaison by any department or agency with such services on narcotics activities;

(f) Participate in the development of procedures approved by the Attorney General governing criminal narcotics intelligence activities abroad to ensure that these activities are consistent with foreign intelligence programs;

(g) Ensure the establishment by   of common security and access standards for managing and handling foreign intelligence systems, information, and products;

(h) Ensure that programs are developed which protect intelligence sources, methods, and analytical procedures;

(i) Establish uniform criteria for the determination of relative priorities for the transmission of critical national foreign intelligence, and advise the Secretary of   concerning the communications requirements of   for the transmission of such intelligence;

(j) Establish appropriate staffs, committees, or other advisory groups to assist in the execution of the Director's responsibilities;

(k) Have full responsibility for production and dissemination of national foreign intelligence, and authority to levy analytic tasks on departmental intelligence production organizations, in consultation with those organizations, ensuring that appropriate mechanisms for competitive analysis are developed so that diverse points of view are considered fully and differences of judgment within   are brought to the attention of national policymakers;

(l) Ensure the timely exploitation and dissemination of data gathered by national foreign intelligence collection means, and ensure that the resulting intelligence is disseminated immediately to appropriate government entities and military commands;

(m) Establish mechanisms which translate national foreign intelligence objectives and priorities approved by the   into specific guidance for  , resolve conflicts in tasking priority, provide to departments and agencies having information collection capabilities that are not part of   advisory tasking concerning collection of national foreign intelligence, and provide for the development of plans and arrangements for transfer of required collection tasking authority to the Secretary of   when directed by the President;

(n) Develop, with the advice of the program managers and departments and agencies concerned, the consolidated   budget, and present it to the President and the  ;

(o) Review and approve all requests for reprogramming   funds, in accordance with guidelines established by  ;

(p) Monitor   implementation, and, as necessary, conduct program and performance audits and evaluations;'

(q) Together with the Secretary of  , ensure that there is no unnecessary overlap between national foreign intelligence programs and   intelligence programs consistent with the requirement to develop competitive analysis, and provide to and obtain from the Secretary of   all information necessary for this purpose;

(r) In accordance with law and relevant procedures approved by the Attorney General under this  , give the heads of the departments and agencies access to all intelligence, developed by the   or the staff elements of the Director of  , relevant to the national intelligence needs of the departments and agencies; and

(s) Facilitate the use of national foreign intelligence products by   in a secure manner.

1.6 Duties and Responsibilities of the Heads of Executive Branch Departments and Agencies.

(a) The heads of all Executive Branch departments and agencies shall, in accordance with law and relevant procedures approved by the Attorney General under this  , give the Director of   access to all information relevant to the national intelligence needs of  , and shall give due consideration to requests from the Director of   for appropriate support for   activities.

(b) The heads of departments and agencies involved in   shall ensure timely development and submission to the Director of   by the program managers and heads of component activities of proposed national programs and budgets in the format designated by the Director of  , and shall also ensure that the Director of   is provided, in a timely and responsive manner, all information necessary to perform the Director's program and budget responsibilities.

(c) The heads of departments and agencies involved in   may appeal to the President decisions by the Director of   on budget or reprogramming matters of  .

1.7 Senior Officials of  . The heads of departments and agencies with organizations in   or the heads of such organizations, as appropriate, shall:

(a) Report to the Attorney General possible violations of federal criminal laws by employees and of specified federal criminal laws by any other person as provided in procedures agreed upon by the Attorney General and the head of the department or agency concerned, in a manner consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods, as specified in those procedures;

(b) In any case involving serious or continuing breaches of security, recommend to the Attorney General that the case be referred to the   for further investigation;

(c) Furnish the Director of   and the  , in accordance with applicable law and procedures approved by the Attorney General under this  , the information required for the performance of their respective duties;

(d) Report to  , and keep the Director of   appropriately informed, concerning any intelligence activities of their organizations that they have reason to believe may be unlawful or contrary to Executive order or Presidential directive;

(e) Protect intelligence and intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure consistent with guidance from the Director of  ;

(f) Disseminate intelligence to cooperating foreign governments under arrangements established or agreed to by the Director of  ;

(g) Participate in the development of procedures approved by the Attorney General governing production and dissemination of intelligence resulting from criminal narcotics intelligence activities abroad if their departments, agencies, or organizations have intelligence responsibilities for foreign or domestic narcotics production and trafficking:

(h) Instruct their employees to cooperate fully with  ; and

(i) Ensure that   and General   for their organizations have access to any information necessary to perform their duties assigned by this  .

1.8  . All duties and responsibilities of the   shall be related to the intelligence functions set out below. As authorized by this  ; the National Security Act of  , as amended; the CIA Act of  , as amended; appropriate directives or other applicable law, the   shall:

(a) Collect, produce and disseminate foreign intelligence and counterintelligence, including information not otherwise obtainable. The collection of foreign intelligence or counterintelligence within   shall be coordinated with the   as required by procedures agreed upon by the Director of   and the Attorney General;

(b) Collect, produce and disseminate intelligence on foreign aspects of narcotics production and trafficking;

(c) Conduct counterintelligence activities outside   and, without assuming or performing any internal security functions, conduct counterintelligence activities within   in coordination with the   as required by procedures agreed upon by the Director of   and the Attorney General;

(d) Coordinate counterintelligence activities and the collection of information not otherwise obtainable when conducted outside   by other departments and agencies;

(e) Conduct special activities approved by the President. No agency except the   (or   in time of war declared by   or during any period covered by a report from the President to the   under   (87 Stat. 855)) may conduct any special activity unless the President determines that another agency is more likely to achieve a particular objective;

(f) Conduct services of common concern for   as directed by the  ;

(g) Carry out or contract for research, development and procurement of technical systems and devices relating to authorized functions;

(h) Protect the security of its installations, activities, information, property, and employees by appropriate means, including such investigations of applicants, employees, contractors, and other persons with similar associations with the   as are necessary; and

(i) Conduct such administrative and technical support activities within and outside   as are necessary to perform the functions described in sections (a) through (h) above, including procurement and essential cover and proprietary arrangements.

1.9  . The Secretary of   shall:

(a) Overtly collect information relevant to   foreign policy concerns;

(b) Produce and disseminate foreign intelligence relating to   foreign policy as required for the execution of the Secretary's responsibilities;

(c) Disseminate, as appropriate, reports received from   diplomatic and consular posts;

(d) Transmit reporting requirements of   to   abroad; and

(e) Support Chiefs of Missions in discharging their statutory responsibilities for direction and coordination of mission activities.

1.10  . The Secretary of the   shall:

(a) Overtly collect foreign financial and monetary information;

(b) Participate with   in the overt collection of general foreign economic information;

(c) Produce and disseminate foreign intelligence relating to   economic policy as required for the execution of the Secretary's responsibilities; and

(d) Conduct, through  , activities to determine the existence and capability of surveillance equipment being used against the President of  ,   of the President, and, as authorized by the Secretary of the   or the President, other   protectees and   officials. No information shall be acquired intentionally through such activities except to protect against such surveillance, and those activities shall be conducted pursuant to procedures agreed upon by the Secretary of the   and the Attorney General.

1.11  . The Secretary of   shall:

(a) Collect national foreign intelligence and be responsive to collection tasking by the Director of  ;

(b) Collect, produce and disseminate military and military-related foreign intelligence and counterintelligence as required for execution of the Secretary's responsibilities;

(c) Conduct programs and missions necessary to fulfill national, departmental and tactical foreign intelligence requirements;

(d) Conduct counterintelligence activities in support of   components outside   in coordination with the  , and within   in coordination with the   pursuant to procedures agreed upon by the Secretary of   and the Attorney General;

(e) Conduct, as the executive agent of  , signals intelligence and communications security activities, except as otherwise directed by the  ;

(f) Provide for the timely transmission of critical intelligence, as defined by the Director of  , within  ;

(g) Carry out or contract for research, development and procurement of technical systems and devices relating to authorized intelligence functions;

(h) Protect the security of   installations, activities, property, information, and employees by appropriate means including such investigations of applicants, employees, contractors, and other persons with similar associations with   as are necessary;

(i) Establish and maintain military intelligence relationships and military intelligence exchange programs with selected cooperative foreign defense establishments and international organizations, and ensure that such relationships and programs are in accordance with policies formulated by the Director of  ;

(j) Direct, operate, control and provide fiscal management for   and for defense and military intelligence and national reconnaissance entities; and

(k) Conduct such administrative and technical support activities within and outside   as are necessary to perform the functions described in sections (a) through (j) above.

1.12   by the Secretary of  . In carrying out the responsibilities assigned in section 1.11, the Secretary of   is authorized to utilize the following:

(a)  , whose responsibilities shall include:

(1) Collection, production, or, through tasking and coordination, provision of military and military-related intelligence for the Secretary of  ,  , other   components, and, as appropriate, non-Defense agencies;

(2) Collection and provision of military intelligence for national foreign intelligence and counterintelligence products;

(3) Coordination of all   intelligence collection requirements;

(4) Management of the   system; and

(5) Provision of foreign intelligence and counterintelligence staff support as directed by  .

(b)  , whose responsibilities shall include:

(1) Establishment and operation of an effective unified organization for signals intelligence activities, except for the delegation of operational control over certain operations that are conducted through other elements of  . No other department or agency may engage in signals intelligence activities except pursuant to a delegation by the Secretary of  ;

(2) Control of signals intelligence collection and processing activities, including assignment of resources to an appropriate agent for such periods and tasks as required for the direct support of military commanders;

(3) Collection of signals intelligence information for national foreign intelligence purposes in accordance with guidance from the Director of  ;

(4) Processing of signals intelligence data for national foreign intelligence purposes in accordance with guidance from the Director of  ;

(5) Dissemination of signals intelligence information for national foreign intelligence purposes to authorized elements of the Government, including the military services, in accordance with guidance from the Director of  ;

(6) Collection, processing and dissemination of signals intelligence information for counterintelligence purposes;

(7) Provision of signals intelligence support for the conduct of military operations in accordance with tasking, priorities, and standards of timeliness assigned by the Secretary of  . If provision of such support requires use of national collection systems, these systems will be tasked within existing guidance from the Director of  ;

(8) Executing the responsibilities of the Secretary of   as executive agent for the communications security of  ;

(9) Conduct of research and development to meet needs of   for signals intelligence and communications security;

(10) Protection of the security of its installations, activities, property, information, and employees by appropriate means, including such investigations of applicants, employees, contractors, and other persons with similar associations with the   as are necessary;

(11) Prescribing, within its field of authorized operations, security regulations covering operating practices, including the transmission, handling and distribution of signals intelligence and communications security material within and among the elements under control of the Director of the  , and exercising the necessary supervisory control to ensure compliance with the regulations;

(12) Conduct of foreign cryptologic liaison relationships, with liaison for intelligence purposes conducted in accordance with policies formulated by the Director of  ; and

(13) Conduct of such administrative and technical support activities within and outside   as are necessary to perform the functions described in sections (1) through (12) above, including procurement.

(c) Offices for the collection of specialized intelligence through reconnaissance programs, whose responsibilities shall include:

(1) Carrying out consolidated reconnaissance programs for specialized intelligence;

(2) Responding to tasking in accordance with procedures established by the Director of  ; and

(3) Delegating authority to the various departments and agencies for research, development, procurement, and operation of designated means of collection.

(d) The foreign intelligence and counterintelligence elements of the  ,  ,  , and  , whose responsibilities shall include:

(1) Collection, production and dissemination of military and military-related foreign intelligence and counterintelligence, and information on the foreign aspects of narcotics production and trafficking. When collection is conducted in response to national foreign intelligence requirements, it will be conducted in accordance with guidance from the Director of  . Collection of national foreign intelligence, not otherwise obtainable, outside   shall be coordinated with the  , and such collection within   shall be coordinated with the  ;

(2) Conduct of counterintelligence activities outside   in coordination with the  , and within   in coordination with the  ; and

(3) Monitoring of the development, procurement and management of tactical intelligence systems and equipment and conducting related research, development, and test and evaluation activities.

(e) Other offices within   appropriate for conduct of the intelligence missions and responsibilities assigned to the Secretary of  . If such other offices are used for intelligence purposes, the provisions of Part 2 of this   shall apply to those offices when used for those purposes.

1.13  . The Secretary of Energy shall:

(a) Participate with   in overtly collecting information with respect to foreign energy matters;

(b) Produce and disseminate foreign intelligence necessary for the Secretary's responsibilities;

(c) Participate in formulating intelligence collection and analysis requirements where the special expert capability of the   can contribute; and

(d) Provide expert technical, analytical and research capability to other agencies within  .

1.14  . Under the supervision of the Attorney General and pursuant to such regulations as the Attorney General may establish, the Director of the   shall:

(a) Within   conduct counterintelligence and coordinate counterintelligence activities of other agencies within  . When a counterintelligence activity of the   involves military or civilian personnel of  , the   shall coordinate with  ;

(b) Conduct counterintelligence activities outside   in coordination with the   as required by procedures agreed upon by the Director of   and the Attorney General;

(c) Conduct within  , when requested by officials of   designated by the President, activities undertaken to collect foreign intelligence or support foreign intelligence collection requirements of other agencies within  , or, when requested by the Director of  , to support the communications security activities of  ;

(d) Produce and disseminate foreign intelligence and counterintelligence; and

(e) Carry out or contract for research, development and procurement of technical systems and devices relating to the functions authorized above.

Part 2 Conduct of Intelligence Activities

2.1 Need. Accurate and timely information about the capabilities, intentions and activities of foreign powers, organizations, or persons and their agents is essential to informed decision-making in the areas of national defense and foreign relations. Collection of such information is a priority objective and will be pursued in a vigorous, innovative and responsible manner that is consistent with the Constitution and applicable law and respectful of the principles upon which   was founded.

2.2 Purpose. This   is intended to enhance human and technical collection techniques, especially those undertaken abroad, and the acquisition of significant foreign intelligence, as well as the detection and countering of international terrorist activities and espionage conducted by foreign powers. Set forth below are certain general principles that, in addition to and consistent with applicable laws, are intended to achieve the proper balance between the acquisition of essential information and protection of individual interests. Nothing in this   shall be construed to apply to or interfere with any authorized civil or criminal law enforcement responsibility of any department or agency.

2.3  . Agencies within   are authorized to collect, retain or disseminate information concerning   persons only in accordance with procedures established by the head of the agency concerned and approved by the Attorney General, consistent with the authorities provided by Part 1 of this Order. Those procedures shall permit collection, retention and dissemination of the following types of information.

(a) Information that is publicly available or collected with the consent of the person concerned;

(b) Information constituting foreign intelligence or counterintelligence, including such information concerning corporations or other commercial organizations. Collection within   of foreign intelligence not otherwise obtainable shall be undertaken by the   or, when significant foreign intelligence is sought, by other authorized agencies of  , provided that no foreign intelligence collection by such agencies may be undertaken for the purpose of acquiring information concerning the domestic activities of   persons;

(c) Information obtained in the course of a lawful foreign intelligence, counterintelligence, international narcotics or international terrorism investigation;

(d) Information needed to protect the safety of any persons or organizations, including those who are targets, victims or hostages of international terrorists organizations;

(e) Information needed to protect foreign intelligence or counterintelligence sources or methods from unauthorized disclosure. Collection within   shall be undertaken by the   except that other agencies of   may also collect such information concerning present or former employees, present or former intelligence agency contractors or their present or former employees, or applicants for any such employment or contracting;

(f) Information concerning persons who are reasonably believed to be potential sources or contacts for the purpose of determining their suitability or credibility;

(g) Information arising out of a lawful personnel, physical or communications security investigation;

(h) Information acquired by overhead reconnaissance not directed at specific   persons;

(i) Incidentally obtained information that may indicate involvement in activities that may violate federal, state, local or foreign laws; and

(j) Information necessary for administrative purposes. In addition, agencies within   may disseminate information, other than information derived from signals intelligence, to each appropriate agency within   for purposes of allowing the recipient agency to determine whether the information is relevant to its responsibilities and can be retained by it.

2.4  . Agencies within the   shall use the least intrusive collection techniques feasible within   or directed against   persons abroad. Agencies are not authorized to use such techniques as electronic surveillance, unconsented physical search, mail surveillance, physical surveillance, or monitoring devices unless they are in accordance with procedures established by the head of the agency concerned and approved by the Attorney General. Such procedures shall protect constitutional and other legal rights and limit use of such information to lawful governmental purposes. These procedures shall not authorize:

(a) The   to engage in electronic surveillance within   except for the purpose of training, testing, or conducting countermeasures to hostile electronic surveillance;

(b) Unconsented physical searches in   by agencies other than the  , except for:

(1) Searches by counterintelligence elements of the military services directed against military personnel within   or abroad for intelligence purposes, when authorized by a military commander empowered to approve physical searches for law enforcement purposes, based upon a finding of probable cause to believe that such persons are acting as agents of foreign powers; and

(2) Searches by   of personal property of   States persons lawfully in its possession.

(c) Physical surveillance of a   person in   by agencies other than the  , except for:

(1) Physical surveillance of present or former employees, present or former intelligence agency contractors or their present or former employees, or applicants for any such employment or contracting; and

(2) Physical surveillance of a military person employed by a nonintelligence element of a military service.

(d) Physical surveillance of a   person abroad to collect foreign intelligence, except to obtain significant information that cannot reasonably be acquired by other means.

2.5 Attorney General  . The Attorney General hereby is delegated the power to approve the use for intelligence purposes, within   or against a   person abroad, of any technique for which a warrant would be required if undertaken for law enforcement purposes, provided that such techniques shall not be undertaken unless the Attorney General has determined in each case that there is probable cause to believe that the technique is directed against a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power. Electronic surveillance, as defined in   of  , shall be conducted in accordance with that Act, as well as this  .

2.6 Assistance to Law Enforcement Authorities. Agencies within   are authorized to:

(a) Cooperate with appropriate law enforcement agencies for the purpose of protecting the employees, information, property and facilities of any agency within  ;

(b) Unless otherwise precluded by law or this  , participate in law enforcement activities to investigate or prevent clandestine intelligence activities by foreign powers, or international terrorist or narcotics activities;

(c) Provide specialized equipment, technical knowledge, or assistance of expert personnel for use by any department or agency, or, when lives are endangered, to support local law enforcement agencies. Provision of assistance by expert personnel shall be approved in each case by   of the providing agency; and

(d) Render any other assistance and cooperation to law enforcement authorities not precluded by applicable law.

2.7 Contracting. Agencies within   are authorized to enter into contracts or arrangements for the provision of goods or services with private companies or institutions in   and need not reveal the sponsorship of such contracts or arrangements for authorized intelligence purposes. Contracts or arrangements with academic institutions may be undertaken only with the consent of appropriate officials of the institution.

2.8 Consistency With Other Laws. Nothing in this   shall be construed to authorize any activity in violation of the Constitution or statutes of  .

2.9 Undisclosed Participation in Organizations Within  . No one acting on behalf of agencies within   may join or otherwise participate in any organization in   on behalf of any agency within   without disclosing his intelligence affiliation to appropriate officials of the organization, except in accordance with procedures established by the head of the agency concerned and approved by the Attorney General. Such participation shall be authorized only if it is essential to achieving lawful purposes as determined by the agency head or designee. No such participation may be undertaken for the purpose of influencing the activity of the organization or its members except in cases where:

(a) The participation is undertaken on behalf of the   in the course of a lawful investigation; or

(b) The organization concerned is composed primarily of individuals who are not   persons and is reasonably believed to be acting on behalf of a foreign power.

2.10 Human Experimentation. No agency within the   shall sponsor, contract for or conduct research on human subjects except in accordance with guidelines issued by  . The subject's informed consent shall be documented as required by those guidelines.

 . No person employed by or acting on behalf of   shall engage in, or conspire to engage in, assassination.

2.12  . No agency of   shall participate in or request any person to undertake activities forbidden by this  .

Part 3 General Provisions

3.1 Congressional Oversight. The duties and responsibilities of the Director of   and the heads of other departments, agencies, and entities engaged in intelligence activities to cooperate with the   in the conduct of its responsibilities for oversight of intelligence activities shall be as provided in title 50, United States Code, section 413. The requirements of section 662 of the Foreign Assistance Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.  ), and section 501 of the National Security Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. 413), shall apply to all special activities as defined in this  .

3.2 Implementation. The  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Director of   shall issue such appropriate directives and procedures as are necessary to implement this  . Heads of agencies within the   shall issue appropriate supplementary directives and procedures consistent with this  . The Attorney General shall provide a statement of reasons for not approving any procedures established by the head of an agency in   other than the  .   may establish procedures in instances where the agency head and the Attorney General are unable to reach agreement on other than constitutional or other legal grounds.

3.3 Procedures. Until the procedures required by this   have been established, the activities herein authorized which require procedures shall be conducted in accordance with existing procedures or requirements established under Executive Order No.  . Procedures required by this   shall be established as expeditiously as possible. All procedures promulgated pursuant to this   shall be made available to the congressional intelligence committees.

3.4 Definitions. For the purposes of this  , the following terms shall have these meanings:

(a) Counterintelligence means information gathered and activities conducted to protect against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted for or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations or persons, or international terrorist activities, but not including personnel, physical, document or communications security programs.

(b) Electronic surveillance means acquisition of a nonpublic communication by electronic means without the consent of a person who is a party to an electronic communication or, in the case of a nonelectronic communication, without the consent of a person who is visibly present at the place of communication, but not including the use of radio direction-finding equipment solely to determine the location of a transmitter.

(c) Employee means a person employed by, assigned to or acting for an agency within  .

(d) Foreign intelligence means information relating to the capabilities, intentions and activities of foreign powers, organizations or persons, but not including counterintelligence except for information on international terrorist activities.

(e) Intelligence activities means all activities that agencies within   are authorized to conduct pursuant to this  .

(f)   and agencies within   refer to the following agencies or organizations:

(1)   ( );

(2)   ( );

(3)   ( );

(4) The offices within   for the collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through reconnaissance programs;

(5)    ;

(6) The intelligence elements of the  ,  ,  , and  ,  ),  , and  ; and

(7) The staff elements of the Director of  .

(g)   includes the programs listed below, but its composition shall be subject to review by   and modification by the President:

(1) The programs of the  ;

(2)  ,  , and the programs of the offices within   for the collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through reconnaissance, except such elements as the Director of   and the Secretary of   agree should be excluded;

(3) Other programs of agencies within   designated jointly by the Director of   and the head of the department or by the President as national foreign intelligence or counterintelligence activities;

(4) Activities of the staff elements of the Director of  ;

(5) Activities to acquire the intelligence required for the planning and conduct of tactical operations by   military forces are not included in  .

(h) Special activities means activities conducted in support of national foreign policy objectives abroad which are planned and executed so that the role of   is not apparent or acknowledged publicly, and functions in support of such activities, but which are not intended to influence   political processes, public opinion, policies, or media and do not include diplomatic activities or the collection and production of intelligence or related support functions.

(i)   person means a   citizen, an alien known by the intelligence agency concerned to be a permanent resident alien, an unincorporated association substantially composed of   citizens or permanent resident aliens, or a corporation incorporated in  , except for a corporation directed and controlled by a foreign government or governments.

3.5 Purpose and Effect. This   is intended to control and provide direction and guidance to  . Nothing contained herein or in any procedures promulgated hereunder is intended to confer any substantive or procedural right or privilege on any person or organization.

3.6 Revocation. Executive  . 12036 of January  , as amended, entitled "United States Intelligence Activities," is revoked.
