Section 1. The Secretary of   shall, in carrying out his responsibilities for public health and human services, develop and coordinate a national program for physical fitness and sports. The Secretary shall:

(a) Enlist the active support and assistance of individual citizens, civic groups, private enterprise, voluntary organizations, and others in efforts to promote and improve the fitness of all   through regular participation in physical fitness and sports activities.

(b) Initiate programs to inform the general public of the importance of exercise and the link which exists between regular physical activity and such qualities as good health and effective performance.

(c) Strengthen coordination of Federal services and programs relating to physical fitness and sports participation and invite appropriate Federal agencies to participate in an interagency committee to coordinate physical fitness and sports activities of the   establishment.

(d) Encourage State and local governments to emphasize the importance of regular physical fitness and sports participation.

(e) Seek to advance the physical fitness of children, youth, adults, and senior citizens by systematically encouraging the development of community recreation, physical fitness, and sports participation programs.

(f) Develop cooperative programs with medical, dental, and other similar professional societies to encourage the implementation of sound physical fitness practices and sports medicine services.

(g) Stimulate and encourage research in the areas of sports medicine, physical fitness, and sports performance.

(h) Assist educational agencies at all levels in developing high quality, innovative health and physical education programs which emphasize the importance of exercise to good health.

(i) Assist recreation agencies and national sports governing bodies at all levels in developing "sports for all" programs which emphasize the value of sports to physical, mental, and emotional fitness.

(j) Assist business, industry, government, and labor organizations in establishing sound physical fitness programs to elevate employee fitness and to reduce the financial and human costs resulting from physical inactivity.

 . 2. President's  . (a) There is hereby continued the President's  .

(b) The   shall be composed of fifteen members appointed by the President. The President shall designate one of the members to be the Chairman.

 . 3. Functions of the  . (a) The   shall advise the President and the Secretary concerning progress made in carrying out the provisions of this   and shall recommend to the President and the Secretary, as necessary, actions to accelerate progress.

(b) The   shall advise the Secretary on matters pertaining to the ways and means of enhancing opportunities for participation in physical fitness and sports activities.

(c) The   shall also advise the Secretary on  , local, and private actions to extend and improve physical activity programs and services.

 . 4.  . (a) The Secretary and the   are authorized to request from any   agency such information or assistance deemed necessary to carry out their functions under this  .

(b) Each Federal agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within available funds, to furnish such information and assistance to the Secretary and the   as they may request.

(c) The members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members of the   may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(d) To the extent permitted by law, the Secretary shall furnish the   with necessary staff, supplies, facilities, and other administrative services. The expenses of the   shall be paid from funds available to the Secretary.

(e) The Secretary shall appoint an Executive Director of the  .

(f) The seal prescribed by Executive Order No. 10830 of July 24,  , as amended, shall continue to be the seal of the President's   continued by this  .

 . 5.  .

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) In accordance with  , as amended, the   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

(c) Executive Order No.  , as amended, is revoked.
