Section 1.   is an integrated program carried out by two organizational units, one in   and the other in  .

 . 2. Both organizational units shall be headed by the same individual so that the activities of each may continue in practice under common management. This individual shall direct   in both departments. The director shall be qualified by reason of technical background and experience in naval nuclear propulsion. The director may be either a civilian or an officer of  , active or retired.

 . 3. The Secretary of the   (through the Secretary of  ) and the Secretary of Energy shall obtain the approval of the President to appoint the director of   for their respective  . The director shall be appointed to serve a term of  , except that the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the   may, with mutual concurrence, terminate or extend the term of the respective appointments.

 . 4. An officer of   appointed as director shall be nominated for the grade of  . A civilian serving as director shall be compensated at a rate to be specified at the time of appointment.

 . 5. Within  , the Secretary of Energy shall assign to the director the responsibility of performing the functions of   transferred to  ) of   (42 U.S.C.  ), including assigned civilian power reactor programs, and any naval nuclear propulsion functions of  , including:

(a) direct supervision over the   and  ,   and naval reactor prototype plants;

(b) research, development, design, acquisition, specification, construction, inspection, installation, certification, testing, overhaul, refueling, operating practices and procedures, maintenance, supply support, and ultimate disposition, of naval nuclear propulsion plants, including components thereof, and any special maintenance and service facilities related thereto;

(c) the safety of reactors and associated naval nuclear propulsion plants, and control of radiation and radioactivity associated with naval nuclear propulsion activities, including prescribing and enforcing standards and regulations for these areas as they affect the environment and the safety and health of workers, operators, and the general public;

(d) training, including training conducted at the naval prototype reactors of  , and assistance and concurrence in the selection, training, qualification, and assignment of personnel reporting to the director and of personnel who supervise, operate, or maintain naval nuclear propulsion plants; and

(e) administration of  , including oversight of program support in areas such as security, nuclear safeguards and transportation, public information, procurement, logistics, and fiscal management.

 . 6. Within  , the director shall report to the Secretary of  , through the Assistant Secretary assigned nuclear energy functions and shall serve as a Deputy Assistant Secretary. The director shall have direct access to the Secretary of   and other senior officials in   concerning naval nuclear propulsion matters, and to all other personnel who supervise, operate or maintain naval nuclear propulsion plants and support facilities for  .

 . 7. Within  , the Secretary of the   shall assign to the director responsibility to supervise all technical aspects of the  's nuclear propulsion work, including:

(a) research, development, design, procurement, specification, construction, inspection, installation, certification, testing, overhaul, refueling, operating practices and procedures, maintenance, supply support, and ultimate disposition, of naval nuclear propulsion plants, including components thereof, and any special maintenance and service facilities related thereto; and

(b) training programs, including   of the  , and assistance and concurrence in the selection, training, qualification, and assignment of personnel reporting to the director and of Government personnel who supervise, operate, or maintain naval nuclear propulsion plants.

 . 8. Within  , the Secretary of the   shall assign to the director responsibility within the   for:

(a) the safety of reactors and associated naval nuclear propulsion plants, and control of radiation and radioactivity associated with naval nuclear propulsion activities, including prescribing and enforcing standards and regulations for these areas as they affect the environment and the safety and health of workers, operators, and the general public.

(b) administration of  , including oversight of program support in areas such as security, nuclear safeguards and transportation, public information, procurement, logistics, and fiscal management.

 . 9. In addition to any other organizational assignments within  , the director shall report directly to the Chief of Naval Operations. The director shall have direct access to the Secretary of the   and other senior officials in   concerning naval nuclear propulsion matters, and to all other Government personnel who supervise, operate, or maintain naval nuclear propulsion plants and support facilities.

 . 10. This   is effective on  .
