Section 1. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, decisions of   (hereinafter referred to as the " ") transmitted to the President pursuant to Section 801 of the Federal Aviation Act, as amended, may be made available by the   for public inspection and copying following submission to the President.

(b) In the interests of national security, and in order to allow for consideration of appropriate action under Executive Order No.  , decisions of the   transmitted to the President under Section 801 shall be withheld from public disclosure for a period not to exceed   after submission to the President.

(c) At the same time that decisions of the   are submitted to the President pursuant to Section 801, the   shall transmit copies thereof to the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for  , the Director of   and any other Executive department or agency that the   deems appropriate.

(d) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , or their designees, shall review the decisions of the   transmitted pursuant to subsection (c) above, and shall promptly advise the Assistant to the President for   or his designee, whether action pursuant to Executive Order No.   is deemed appropriate. If, after considering these recommendations, the Assistant to the President for   determines that classification under Executive Order No.   is appropriate, he shall take such action and immediately so inform the  . Action pursuant to this subsection shall be completed by the persons designated herein within   of receipt of the decision by the President.

(e) On and after   following receipt by the President of a   decision submitted pursuant to Section 801, or upon earlier notification by the Assistant to the President for   or his designee, the   is authorized to disclose all unclassified portions of the text of such decision. Nothing in this section is intended to affect the ability to withhold material under any Executive Order or statute other than Section 801.

 . 2. (a) Departments and agencies outside of   of the President shall raise only matters of national defense or foreign relations in the course of the   review established by this  . All other matters, including those related to regulatory policy, shall be presented to the   in accordance with the procedures of the  .

(b) Departments and agencies outside of   of the President that identify matters of national defense or foreign relations while a decision is pending before the   shall, except as confidentiality is required for reasons of defense or foreign policy, make those matters known to the   in the course of its proceedings.

 . 3. (a) After transmitting a decision under Section 801 to the President for review, the   shall obtain the recommendations, addressed to the President, of the departments and agencies referred to in section 1(c) of this  .

(b) Departments or agencies outside of   of the President making recommendations on matters of national defense or foreign relations with respect to any decision submitted by the   to the President under Section 801 shall submit their recommendations in writing to the  : (1) within   of the  's issuance of a decision subject to a   statutory review period under Section 801(b); and (2) within   of the  's issuance of a decision subject to a   statutory review period under Section 801(a), or in exceptional cases, within the period specified by the   in its letter of transmittal.

(c) The   shall, as soon as practical after the deadlines specified in section 3(b) of this Order: (1) if no recommendations are received from the departments and agencies specified in section 1(c) of this  , transmit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , a memorandum stating that no department or agency advises disapproval of the decision; or (2) if recommendations are received, transmit them to the Assistant to the President for  , who upon review, shall transmit a memorandum to the President with a recommendation as to whether or not the President should disapprove the proposed decision.

 . 4. (a) In advising the President with respect to his review of a decision submitted to him pursuant to Section 801, departments and agencies outside of   of the President shall identify with particularity the defense or foreign policy implications of the   decision which are deemed appropriate for the President's consideration.

(b) If any department or agency which made recommendations to the President pursuant to Section 801 believes that, if the President decides not to disapprove a decision, the letter so advising the   should include a statement that the decision not to disapprove was based on national defense or foreign relations reasons, it should so indicate separately and explain why.

 . 5. Individuals within   of the President shall follow a policy of: (a) refusing to discuss matters relating to the disposition of a case subject to the review of the President under Section 801 with any interested private party, or an attorney or agent for any such party, prior to the President's decision; and (b) referring any written communication from an interested private party, or an attorney or agent for any such party, to the appropriate department or agency outside of   of the President. Exceptions to this policy may be made only when the head of an appropriate department or agency outside of   of the President personally finds, on a nondelegable basis, that direct written or oral communication between a private party and a person within   of the President is needed for reasons of defense or foreign policy.

 . 6. Departments and agencies outside of   of the President which regularly make recommendations to the President in connection with the   review pursuant to Section 801 shall, consistent with application law, including the provisions of Chapter 5 of Title 5 of the United States Code:

(a) establish public dockets for all written communications (other than those requiring confidential treatment for defense or foreign policy reasons) between their officers and employees and private parties in connection with the preparation of such recommendations; and

(b) prescribe such other procedures governing oral and written communications as they deem appropriate.

 . 7. This   is intended solely for the internal guidance of the departments and agencies in order to facilitate the Presidential review process. This   does not confer rights on any private parties.

 . 8. (a) None of the time deadlines specified in this   shall be construed as a limitation on expedited Presidential review of any decision submitted under Section 801.

(b) Executive Order No. 11920 of June 10,  , is revoked.

(e) The provisions of this   shall become effective   after its publication in  .
