Section 1. All claims which may be presented to the  -United States Claims Tribunal under the terms of Article II of the Declaration of the Government of the   and   of Algeria Concerning the Settlement of Claims by   and  , and all claims for equitable or other judicial relief in connection with such claims, are hereby suspended, except as they may be presented to the  . During the period of this suspension, all such claims shall have no legal effect in any action now pending in any court of  , including the courts of any state or any locality thereof,   and  , or in any action commenced in any such court after the effective date of this Order. Nothing in this action precludes the commencement of an action after the effective date of this   for the purpose of tolling the period of limitations for commencement of such action.

 . 2. Nothing in this   shall require dismissal of any action for want of prosecution.

 . 3. Suspension under this   of a claim or a portion thereof submitted to the  -United States Claims Tribunal for adjudication shall terminate upon a determination by the   that it does not have jurisdiction over such claim or such portion.

 . 4. A determination by the  -United States Claims Tribunal on the merits that a claimant is not entitled to recover on a claim shall operate as a final resolution and discharge of the claim for all purposes. A determination by the   that a claimant shall have recovery on a claim in a specified amount shall operate as a final resolution and discharge of the claim for all purposes upon payment to the claimant of the full amount of the award, including any interest awarded by the  .

 . 5. Nothing in this   shall apply to any claim concerning the validity or payment of a standby letter of credit, performance or payment bond or other similar instrument.

 . 6. Nothing is this   shall prohibit the assertion of a counterclaim or set-off by a   national in any judicial proceeding pending or hereafter commenced by  , any political subdivision of  , or any agency, instrumentality, or entity controlled by   or any political subdivision thereof.

 . 7. The Secretary of the   is authorized to employ all powers granted to me by   and by 22 U.S.C. §1732 to carry out the purposes of this  .

 . 8. Executive  .   through 12285 of January 19,  , are ratified.

This Order shall be effective immediately and copies shall be transmitted to the  .
