Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's  .   shall consist of seven members qualified for service by reasons of experience and education. The President shall appoint three members and shall designate one of those members to act as chairman of  . The chairman and ranking minority members of   and   will each appoint one member.

(b) None of the members of   may be an employee of   or  .

Sec. 2. Functions. (a)   shall examine the procedures used by   and   in establishing requirements for, and in providing resources for, the research, development, testing, production, surveillance, and retirement of nuclear weapons and shall recommend any needed change in such procedures.

(b)   shall report to the President and   and   as specified in its charter but not  .   report shall contain recommendations in the areas specified in  ) of the Act.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide   such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of   shall serve without compensation for their work on  . To the extent funds are available therefore, all members of   performing duties away from their home or regular place of business, or designated post of duty, may be allowed travel expenses, as authorized by law, including per diem in lieu of subsistence for persons serving intermittently in the government service, as provided   U.S.C.  .

(c) The Secretary of   shall provide   with such administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary. Any expenses of   shall be paid from such funds as may be available to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with guidelines established by  .

(b)   shall terminate on  , unless its existence is sooner extended in accordance with  .
