Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established  . The   shall be composed of no more than nine members appointed or designated by the President. The membership shall be bipartisan.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall review the overall adequacy of the chemical warfare posture of   with particular emphasis on the question of whether   should produce binary chemical munitions. In conducting its review, the   shall take account of the considerations specified in Section 1511 of Public Law 98-525.

(b) The   shall make sequential reports to the President on its findings and recommendations, by  , as to the need to maintain a chemical retaliatory stockpile; by  , as to the adequacy of the current stockpile if one has been determined to be needed; and by  , as to whether   should produce binary chemical munitions or undertake other actions.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any additional compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ), to the extent funds are available therefor.

(c) The Secretary of   shall provide the   with such administrative services, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary. Any expenses of the   shall be paid from such funds as may be available to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   after submission of its report, or on  , whichever date is earlier.
