Section 1.  . The Secretary of   is authorized to operate and administer the Alaska Railroad, except that the authority of the Secretary to fix, change, or modify rates for the transportation of passengers and property shall be subject to the authority of  , pursuant to Section 3 of this Order.

 . 2. Rates—Secretary of  . (a) In exercising the authority granted by this   to fix, change, or modify rates of  , the Secretary of   is authorized to establish rates and enter into rate arrangements, including contracts, with other parties to the same extent as comparable rail carriers subject to the jurisdiction of   under subchapter I of chapter 105 of title 49 of the United States Code. Such rates shall be filed with   to the same extent as rates are filed by comparable rail carriers subject to its jurisdiction.

(b) Any contract filed with the   shall be available to any other shipper for rates and services for transportation of the same type of commodity under similar conditions to the contract on file, if the other shipper is able to enter into such contract at a time essentially contemporaneous with the period during which the contract on file is offered.

(c) Connecting water carriers may participate in   contract rate agreements.

(d)   rates, rate arrangements, and contracts entered into pursuant to this   and Executive Order No.   of   are subject to the actions of  , pursuant to Section 3 of this Order.

 . 3. Rates— . With respect to rates filed by the Secretary with   pursuant to Section 2 of this  , the   may act in the same manner as though the Alaska Railroad were subject to section 10101a; subchapter I of chapter 105; subchapter I of chapter 107; subchapter II of chapter 107, except sections   and  ; subchapter III of chapter 107, except sections   and  ; subchapter IV of chapter 107; subchapter I of chapter 111; subchapter II of chapter 111; and chapter 117, except sections   and   of title 49 of the United States Code: Provided, however, that to the extent Section 2 of this   may grant additional authority or impose additional limitations, the standards established by Section 2 shall be applicable.

 . 4.  .

(a) Executive Order No.   is superseded.

(b) Any existing   rate entered into under Executive Order No.   shall have the same force and effect as if it had been entered into in accordance with the provisions of this  .

(c) Any   railroad rate entered into in accordance with this   shall be deemed to be in compliance with the Alaska Railroad Act, as amended.
