Section 1. Establishment of Federal Regional Councils.

(a) There is hereby restructured a   for each of the ten standard Federal regions (  No. A-105). Each   shall be composed of a principal policy official in the region at the Administrator, Director,  , or equivalent level, from each of the following agencies:

(1)  .

(2)  .

(3)  .

(4)  .

(5)  .

(6)  .

(7)  .

(8)  .

(9)  .

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman for  . Representatives of   may participate in the deliberations of the  .

(c) Each member of each   shall designate an alternate to serve whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the  . The alternate shall be a principal official in the region at the Deputy or equivalent level, or the head of an operating unit of the agency.

(d) Whenever matters are to be considered by a   which significantly affect the interests of agencies not represented on that  , the Regional Director or other appropriate representative of the affected agency shall participate in the deliberations of the  .

 . 2.  .

(a) Each   shall, upon request, establish liaison with  , tribal, regional, and local offices, and shall inform elected officials, including   legislators, concerning Government policies and initiatives, through such mechanisms as are appropriate in individual cases.

(b) Each   shall respond to  , tribal, regional, and local concerns or inquiries about major agency policy and budgeting decisions, in order to ensure that the total effect of those actions and related actions of other agencies are explained and understood.

(c) Each   shall assist in explaining the following federalism initiatives:

(1) Reform of the   aid system through block grants.

(2) Devolution of Federal programs and functions.

(3) Reduction in the number and impact of Federal regulations and administrative requirements.

(d) Each   shall coordinate the   response to social and economic impacts resulting from Federal actions.

(e) Each   shall identify significant problems with Federal regulations, policies and actions for resolution in the field or refer such problems to the appropriate agency for resolution in a timely fashion, to ensure that problems which are of interest to   and local governments are acted upon expeditiously.

 . 3. Oversight.

(a)   will provide policy guidance to the   in consultation with  ; establish policy with respect to   procedural matters; respond to   initiatives; seek to resolve policy issues referred to it by the  ; coordinate   activities relating to   and local governments with  ; and, coordinate   activities relating to specific programmatic areas with the appropriate Federal agencies.

(b)   shall provide direction for, and oversight of, the implementation by   management improvement actions and of   aid reforms.  . 4.  .

(a) Each agency represented on a   shall provide, to the extent permitted by law, appropriate staff for common or joint interagency activities as requested by the Chairman of the  .

(b) Executive Order No.   is revoked.
