Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   on Central America. The   shall be composed of not more than 12 members appointed or designated by the President. These members shall be drawn from among distinguished leaders of the government, business, labor, education,   and religious communities. No more than seven members shall be of the same political party.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall study the nature of   interests in the   region and the threats now posed to those interests. Based on its findings, the   shall provide advice to the President, the Secretary of   and the   on elements of a long-term   policy that will best respond to the challenges of social, economic, and democratic development in the region, and to internal and external threats to its security and stability. The   also shall provide advice on means of building a national consensus on a comprehensive   policy for the region.

(b) The   shall report to the President by  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   may, subject to the availability of funds, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) The Secretary of   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall, unless otherwise extended, terminate   after submitting its final report.
