Section 1. In order to subdivide and amend the nomenclature of existing items for purposes of   ( ),     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) are modified as provided in   I to this  .

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is amended as set forth in Annex II to this  .

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is amended as set forth in Annex III to this  .

 . 4. General  ) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is modified as set forth in Annex IV to this  .

 . 5. In order to provide staged reductions in the rates of duty for those new   items created by   I to this  , Annex III to Proclamation 4707 and   Proclamation 4768 are amended as set forth in Annex V to this  .

 . 6. Whenever the column 1 rate of duty in the   for any item specified in   I to this   is reduced to the same level as, or to a lower level than, the corresponding rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" by   I to this  , the rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" for such item shall be deleted from the  .

 . 7.   and IV of Proclamation 4707 and Annexes II, III, and IV of Proclamation 4768 are superseded to the extent inconsistent with this  .

 . 8. General Headnote 3(c)(i) of the  , listing the designated beneficiary developing countries for purposes of the  , is modified as provided in Annex VI to this  .

 . 9(a). The amendments made by the sections designated "A" in the   to this  , by section C of Annex I, by section B of Annex V, and by   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on and after the date that is   after the date of publication of this   in  .

(b) Unless otherwise specified, the remaining amendments made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .
