Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established   ("the Board").

(b) The Board shall be composed of the following members:

(1) the Attorney General, who shall serve as Chairman;

(2) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as Vice Chairman;

(3) the Secretary of  ;

(4) the Secretary of the  ;

(5) the Secretary of  ;

(6) the Secretary of the  ;

(7) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(8) the Secretary of  ; (9) the Secretary of  ;

(10) the Secretary of  ;

(11) the Secretary of  ;

(12) the Secretary of  ;

(13) the Director of  ;

(14) the Assistant to the President for  ;

(15) the Director of  ;

(16) the Chief of Staff to the Vice President;

(17) the Director of  ; and

(18) such other members as the President may, from time to time, designate.

 . 2. Functions. (a) The Board shall facilitate the development and coordination of national drug policy and shall coordinate activities of   departments and agencies to reduce the supply and use of illegal drugs, including international activities, enforcement, prevention and education, treatment and rehabilitation, and research relating to illegal drugs.

(b) In furtherance of its responsibilities, the   shall:

(1) review, evaluate and develop   policy, strategy and resources with respect to illegal drug law enforcement, prevention and education, treatment and rehabilitation, and research efforts, including budgetary priorities and national plans and strategies;

(2) facilitate coordination of efforts of all Executive departments and agencies to halt national and international trafficking of illegal drugs and to reduce drug abuse;

(3) coordinate the collection and evaluation of information necessary to implement   policy with respect to illegal drug law enforcement and to the reduction of drug abuse; and

(4) provide policy guidance to the agencies and facilitate resolution of differences in this area concerning interagency activities and other matters affecting two or more agencies.

(c) In order to help coordinate the activities of   departments and agencies with responsibility for drug law enforcement and drug abuse reduction, and to supervise implementation of the determinations of the  , the Chairman shall:

(1) advise the   in matters concerning its responsibilities;

(2) make recommendations to the Board for the coordination of drug enforcement and drug abuse reduction activities;

(3) correlate and evaluate intelligence and other information to support the activities of the  ;

(4) act as primary advisor to the President and the   on national and international programs and policies and the implementation of those policies; and

(5) perform such other duties as the President may direct.

(d) The Board shall carry out all duties and responsibilities of  , as set forth in Chapter XIII ( ) of Title II of Public Law 98-473.

(e) Nothing in this   shall be deemed to affect the authorities or responsibilities of  , or any   or official thereof.

 . 3. Coordinating Groups. The Board shall establish a   and a Drug Abuse Prevention and Health Coordinating Group. The membership and chairman of   shall be designated by the Chairman of the Board.

 . 4.  . (a) Section I of Executive Order No.   is amended to provide as follows:

"  has been assigned to assist the President and   in the performance of the. drug policy functions contained in Section 201 of Title II of  , and Rehabilitation Act, as amended (21 U.S.C.  ). Within  , the Director of   shall be primarily responsible for assisting the President and the   in the performance of those functions."

(b) Section 2 of Executive Order No.   is amended by deleting "Director of  " and inserting in lieu thereof "National Drug Policy Board" and by deleting "he" and inserting in lieu thereof " ."
