Section 1. (a) In accordance with policy guidance provided by   ( ), through its Chairman, in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order No.  , as amended, the Secretary of the   shall issue regulations governing the entry or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption of textiles and textile products subject to Section 204 of the Act.

(b) Initial regulations promulgated under this section shall be promulgated   after the effective date of this order.

(c) To the extent necessary to implement more effectively   textile program under Section 204, such regulations shall include:

(i) clarifications in, or revisions to, the country of origin rules for textiles and textile products subject to Section 204 in order to avoid circumvention of multilateral and bilateral textile agreements;

(ii) provisions governing withdrawals from a customs bonded warehouse of articles subject to this   transformed, changed or manipulated in a warehouse after importation but prior to withdrawal for consumption; and

(iii) any other provisions determined to be necessary for the effective and equitable administration of  .

(d) Any such regulations may also include provisions requiring importers to provide additional information and/or documentation on articles subject to this order which are determined to be necessary for the effective and equitable administration of  .

 . 2. (a) The Commissioner of Customs shall establish   and   ( ) within   to coordinate enforcement of regulations concerning importation under  .

(b)  , through its Chairman, shall, in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order No.  , as amended, provide information and recommendations to  , through  , on implementation and administration of  .

(c)   shall, to the extent practicable, inform the Chairman of   of the progress of all investigations concerning textile imports; provide notice to   of all requests for rulings on matters that could reasonably be expected to affect the implementation of  ; and take into consideration any comments on such requests that  , through its Chairman, timely submits.

 . 3. This order supplements, but does not supersede or amend, Executive Order No. 11651 of  , as amended.

 . 4. This order shall be effective upon its publication in  .
