Section 1. There is hereby reconstituted  . The purpose of the   is to attract to the   service outstanding men and women from a variety of academic disciplines who have a clear interest in, and commitment to, a career in the analysis and management of public policies and programs. Individuals selected for the   will be known as  .

 . 2. Eligible individuals are those who have pursued a course of study at the graduate level which demonstrates both an exceptional ability and the commitment stated above. Such individuals at the time of application must have recently received or must expect to receive soon an appropriate advanced degree.

 . 3. (a)   shall provide specific guidance as to what constitutes an appropriate advanced degree.

(b)   shall develop appropriate procedures for the recruitment, nomination, screening, placement and continuing career development of outstanding individuals possessing the qualifications described above.

(c) In developing those procedures,   shall be guided by the following principles and policies:

(1) The number of new   selected shall not exceed two hundred in  .

(2) Final placement of   shall be made by the head of the department, agency, or component within   of the President in which the   is to be employed, or by the designee thereof.

(3) Universities and colleges participating in the   shall make nominations for the  . In making nominations, they shall establish competitive selection processes and procedures to ensure that all applicants receive careful and thorough review.

(4) The procedures so developed shall provide for such affirmative actions as   deems appropriate to assure equal employment opportunity. The procedures shall also provide for the application of appropriate veterans preference criteria.

 . 4. (a) Successful candidates shall be appointed as Presidential Management Interns to positions in   of the excepted service. The appointment shall not exceed   unless extended by   or agency, with the concurrence of  , for up to  .

(b) Tenure for   shall be governed by the following principles and policies:

(1) Assigned responsibilities shall be consistent with an  's educational background and career interests, and the purposes of this  .

(2) Continuation in the   shall be contingent upon satisfactory performance by the   throughout the internship period.

(3) Except as provided in subsection (4) of this Section, service as an   shall confer no rights to further Federal employment in either the competitive or excepted service upon the expiration of the internship period.

(4) Competitive civil service status may be granted to   who satisfactorily complete their internships and meet all other requirements prescribed by  .

 . 5. Those individuals who are currently undergoing the process of selection, or who were selected or appointed under the provisions of Executive Order No.   and who have not at this time completed their scheduled period of excepted service, may continue their internships under the terms of this  .

 . 6.   shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this  .

 . 7. Executive  . 12008 of   is revoked.
