Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established  . The   shall be composed of:

(1) fifteen members appointed or designated by the President (of whom no more than three shall be employees of the federal government) who by reason of their background, education, training, or experience possess expertise in scientific and technological pursuits, as well as the use and implications of the use of such pursuits, which allows them to contribute to the articulation of goals and rationale and the formulation of an agenda for the future direction of   civilian space activity;

(2) not more than nine advisory, nonvoting members designated by the President, representing the   departments and agencies set forth in Section 203(b)(1) of the Act, provided that no one of those departments and agencies shall have more than one employee appointed to the  ; and

(3) two advisory, non-voting members appointed by the President of the   from among the Members of the   and two advisory, non-voting members appointed by the Speaker of   from among the Members of the  .

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among the voting members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) Pursuant to Section 204 of the Act, the   shall study existing and proposed   space activities; formulate an agenda for   civilian space program; and identify long range goals, opportunities, and policy options for civilian space activity for  .

(b) The   shall submit its plan and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the President and the   within   of this  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive departments, agencies and independent instrumentalities shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the  , upon request, such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   appointed by the President under Section l(a)(1) from among private citizens of   may be paid at a rate not to exceed the   equivalent of the   rate of basic pay in effect under section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, for grade GS-18 of the General Schedule for  , including travel time, during which such members are engaged in the actual performance of the duties of the  . While engaged in the work of the  , both voting and non-voting members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5101-5107).

(c) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by  , in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   after submitting the report required by Section 2(b) of this  .
