Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   to  .

(b) The   shall be composed of 11 members appointed by the President from among citizens of  .

(c) The President shall designate one of the members to be the Chairman.

(d) There shall be a three member   of the Commission which shall be composed of the Chairman and two other members elected by the  .  . 2. Functions.

(a) The   shall develop a recommended plan for radio broadcasting intended for transmission to  . The purpose of the plan shall be to promote open communication of information and ideas to   and in particular broadcasting to the   people of accurate information about  .

(b) The   shall examine issues related to effectively carrying out such a plan for radio broadcasting to  . These shall include, but not be limited to, possible program content, information gathering, writing and editing needs, staffing requirements, legal structure for a broadcasting organization, proposed legislation, sample budgets, and the location, structure and function of possible broadcasting stations.

(c) The   may conduct studies, inquiries, hearings, and meetings as it deems necessary. It may assemble and disseminate information, and issue reports and other publications. It may also coordinate, sponsor, or oversee projects, studies, events and other activities that it deems necessary or desirable for development of a recommended program of broadcasting to  .

(d)   may coordinate the work of the   and may act on behalf of the whole  .

(e) The   shall submit its recommendations and final report to the President and the Secretary of   no later than October 1, 1982.

 . 3. Administration.

(a) Members of the   who are not otherwise Government employees shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . However, all members shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ).

(b) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information and advice with respect to radio broadcasting to   as the   may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(c) Expenses of the   shall be paid from funds available to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. General.

(a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate on  , or   after submitting its final report, whichever is earlier.
