Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's   which shall be composed of no more than 30 members. These members shall have particular knowledge and expertise in the field of telecommunications and represent elements of the  's telecommunications industry. Members of the   shall be appointed by the President.

(b) The President shall   designate a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among the members of the  .

(c) To assist the   in carrying out its functions, the   may establish appropriate subcommittees or working groups composed, in whole or in part, of individuals who are not members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall provide to the President, among other things, information and advice from the perspective of the telecommunications industry with respect to the implementation of Presidential Directive  ),  .

(b) The   shall provide information and advice to the President regarding the feasibility of implementing specific measures to improve the telecommunications aspects of our national security posture.

(c) The   shall provide technical information and advice in the identification and solution of problems which the   considers will affect national security telecommunications capability.

(d) In the performance of its advisory duties, the   shall conduct reviews and assessments of the effectiveness of the implementation of  /NSC-53,  .

(e) The   shall periodically report on matters in this Section to the President and to the Secretary of   in his capacity as Executive Agent for  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information with respect to national security telecommunications matters as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. Information supplied to the   shall not, to the extent permitted by law, be available for public inspection.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . However, to the extent permitted by law, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence.

(c) Any expenses of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, be paid from funds available to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accord with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) In accordance with  , as amended, the   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.
