SECTION 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  .

(b) The   shall consist of not more than twenty-five members to be appointed by the President, one of whom shall be designated by the President to chair the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall conduct such public hearings, inquiries, and studies as may be necessary to make recommendations to the President and the Secretary of  , and   in accordance with the objectives of the   outlined in subsection (b) of this Section.

(b) The objectives of the   shall be to:

(1) Recommend means for directing public attention to the importance of foreign language and international studies for the improvement of communications and understanding with other nations in an increasingly interdependent world;

(2) Assess the need in   for foreign language and area specialists, ways in which foreign language and international studies contribute to meeting these needs, and the job market for individuals with these skills.

(3) Recommend what foreign language area studies programs are appropriate at all academic levels and recommend desirable levels and kinds of support for each that should be provided by the public and private sectors.

(4) Review existing legislative authorities and make recommendations for changes needed to carry out most effectively the  's recommendations.

 . 3. Administration. (a) To the extent authorized by law:

(1) All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the   shall be paid from funds available to  , and  .

(2) The Secretary of  , and   may provide, or otherwise obtain, appropriate professional, technical, clerical and administrative personnel as may be necessary to enable the   to perform its functions.

(3) Executive agencies shall assist or otherwise cooperate with the   in the performance of its functions.

(4) Each member of the   who is not otherwise employed in the   may receive compensation at the rate of $100.00 per day for   such member is engaged in the work of the  , and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , and   in accordance with guidelines and procedures prescribed by  .

 . 4. Termination and Final Report. The   shall submit its final report to the President not   after its first meeting and shall terminate   thereafter.
