1-101. The transfer to   of certain functions of  , relating to enforcement of equal employment opportunity programs as provided by  , 2, 3 and 4 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1978 (43 FR 19807), shall be effective on  .

1-102. Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended by deleting the preamble, by substituting "national origin, handicap, or age" for "or national origin" in the first sentence of Section 1, and revising  , and 5 to read as follows:

" . 3.   shall be responsible for directing and furthering the implementation of the policy of   to provide equal opportunity in Federal employment for all employees or applicants for employment (except with regard to aliens employed outside the limits of  ) and to prohibit discrimination in employment because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, or age.

" . 4.  , after consultation with all affected departments and agencies, shall issue such rules, regulations, orders, and instructions and request such information from the affected departments and agencies as it deems necessary and

appropriate to carry out this  .

" . 5. All departments and agencies shall cooperate with and assist   in the performance of its functions under this   and shall furnish the   such reports and information as it may request. The head of each department or agency shall comply with rules, regulations, orders and instructions issued by   pursuant to Section 4 of this Order.".

1-103. Executive  .  , as amended, is further amended by revising Section 1 (b) to read as follows:

"(b) The   shall be composed of the Secretary of  , and  , who shall be Chairman, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Director of  , the Director of  , and the Chairman of  .".

1-104. Executive  .   of  , is amended by deleting "and the Chairman of  " in Section 4 and substituting therefor "Director of  , and the Chairman of  ".

1-105. Executive  .   of  , is amended by deleting Section 2 and revising Section 1 to read as follows:

"In accord with Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of   (29 U.S.C. 791) and Section 4 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1978 (43 FR 19808),   is enlarged and composed of the following, or their designees whose positions are Executive level IV or higher: (1) Secretary of  . (2) Secretary of  .

(3) Secretary of  , and  , Co-Chairman.

(4) Director of  .

(5) Administrator of  .

(6) Administrator of  .

(7) Chairman of  .

(8) Chairman of  , Co-Chairman.

(9) Such other members as the President may designate.".

1-106. This   shall be effective on  .
