  of the Committee. There is hereby established   of the Director of  , hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall consist of a Chairman and eight other members to be appointed by the President.

 . 2. Functions. The   shall conduct inquiries to identify persons who may be qualified to serve as the Director of  , hereinafter referred to as the Director, and shall conduct investigations of those persons to determine their qualifications.  . 3. Report; Duration.

(a) The   shall submit to the President and to the Attorney General, within   from the date of this  , a report listing the names of the five persons whom the   considers best qualified to serve as the Director and setting forth such other information as the President or the Attorney General may require.

(b) The   shall terminate   after submission of its report, unless its duration is extended by the President. So long as the   remains in existence, it shall conduct such additional inquiries and submit such additional reports as may be requested by the President or the Attorney General.

 . 4.   Members. No member of the   shall be eligible to be considered as a possible nominee for the position of Director.

 . 5. Cooperation by Executive Agencies. The   is authorized to request, through its Chairman, from any Executive department or agency such information or assistance as the   deems necessary to carry out its functions under this  . Each department or agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish such information or assistance to  . The   also is authorized to request from any   agency such information and assistance as the   deems necessary, and to obtain such information and assistance to the extent permitted by   law.

 . 6. Travel Expenses; Administrative Support; Financing.

(a) Members of the   shall serve without compensation. While engaged in the work of the  , members may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

(b) The Attorney General shall furnish to the   necessary staff, supplies, facilities and other administrative services.

(c) All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the  , to the extent permitted by law, shall be paid from funds available to the Attorney General.

 . 7.  . Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Attorney General in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .
