1-1. Responsibilities of Executive Agencies

1-101. Executive agencies shall promote the use of ridesharing (carpools, vanpools, privately leased buses, public transportation, and other multi-occupancy modes of travel) by personnel working at Federal facilities. Agency actions pursuant to this   shall be consistent with   issued by  .

1-102. Agencies shall establish an   ridesharing goal tailored to each facility, and expressed as a percentage of fulltime personnel working at that facility who use ridesharing in the commute between home and work. Agencies that share facilities or that are within easy walking distance of one another should coordinate their efforts to develop and implement ridesharing opportunities.

1-103. Agencies shall designate, in accordance with OMB  , an employee transportation coordinator. Agencies that share facilities may designate a single transportation coordinator. The coordinator shall assist employees in forming carpools or vanpools (employee owned or leased) and facilitate employee participation in ridesharing matching programs. The coordinator shall publicize within the facility the availability of public transportation. The coordinator shall also communicate employee needs for new or improved transportation service to the appropriate local public transit authorities or other organizations furnishing multi-passenger modes of travel.

1-104. Agencies shall report to  , hereinafter referred to as the Administrator, the goals established, the means developed to achieve those goals, and the progress achieved. These reports shall be in such form and frequency as the Administrator may require.

1-2. Responsibilities of  

1-201. The Administrator shall issue such regulations as are necessary to implement this  .

1-202. The Administrator may exempt small, remotely located Federal facilities from the requirements of  , 1-103, and 1-104 on his own initiative or upon request of the agency. An exemption shall be granted in whole or in part when, in the judgment of the Administrator, the requirements of those   would not yield significant ridesharing benefits.

1-203. The Administrator shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , periodically provide agencies with guidelines, instructions, and other practical aids for establishing, implementing, and improving their ridesharing programs.

1-204. The Administrator shall assist in coordinating the ridesharing activities of the agencies with the efforts of  , under   and in the development of an emergency energy conservation plan for the Federal government.

1-205. The Administrator shall take into consideration the advice of   under the Clean Air Act, as amended, in performing his responsibilities under this  .

1-206. The Administrator shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , report   to the President on the performance of the agencies in implementing the policies and actions contained in this  . The report shall include (a) an assessment of each agency's performance, including the reasonableness of its goals and the adequacy of its effort, (b) a comparison of private sector and   and local government ridesharing efforts with those of the Federal government, and (c) recommendations for additional actions necessary to remove barriers or to provide additional incentives to encourage more ridesharing by personnel at  .
