1-1. Establishment of Committee.

1-101. There is established an   composed of five high-level officers from five   businesses and five representatives of minority small businesses.

1-102. The President shall appoint the members of the   and designate a Chairman from among its members.

1-103. In selecting the members, the President shall give due consideration to the particular skills desirable to accomplish the purpose .and functions of the  .

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. (a) The   shall assist in monitoring and encouraging the placement of subcontracts by the private sector with eligible small businesses, particularly with small minority businesses, and shall study and propose the incentives and assistance needed by the private sector to help in the training, development, and upgrading of such businesses.

(b) Eligible small businesses are those located in areas of high concentration of unemployed or low-income individuals, businesses owned by low-income individuals, and those businesses eligible for assistance under Section 8(a) of   (15 U.S.C. 637(a), 92 Stat.  ).

1-202. The   shall make periodic reports and recommendations to the President through   and shall offer such other advice and at such times as the President through the Administrator may request.

1-203. The  , through its Chairman, shall report   to the President and to the   on the activities of the   during  .

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. The   may request any Executive agency to furnish such information as may be useful in fulfilling the  's functions. Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish such information to the  .

1-302. Each member of the   who is not otherwise employed by   shall receive no compensation from   by virtue of their service on the  , but all members may receive transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5702 and  .

1-303. All necessary administrative staff services, support, facilities, and expenses of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, be furnished by  .

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. The functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

1-402. The   shall terminate on  .
