1-101. All persons subject to the jurisdiction of   in possession or control of properties, not including funds and securities, owned by   or its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities are licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to transfer such properties, as directed after the effective date of this   by the Government of Iran, acting through its authorized agent. Except where specifically stated, this license, authorization, and direction does not relieve persons subject to the jurisdiction of   from existing legal requirements other than those based upon  .

1-102. (a) All licenses and authorizations for acquiring or exercising any right, power, or privilege, by court order, attachment, or otherwise, including the license contained in Section 535.504 of  , with respect to the properties described in Section 1-101 of this   are revoked and withdrawn.

(b) All rights, powers, and privileges relating to the properties described in section 1-101 of this   and which derive from any attachment, injunction, other like proceedings or-process, or other action in any litigation after  , at 8: 10 a.m. EST, including those derived from Section 535.504 of  , other than rights, powers, and privileges of   and its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, whether acquired by court order or otherwise, are nullified, and all persons claiming any such right, power, or privilege are hereafter barred from exercising the same.

(c) All persons subject to the jurisdiction of   are prohibited from acquiring or exercising any right, power, or privilege, whether by court order or otherwise, with respect to the properties (and any income earned thereon) referred to in Section 1-101 of this  .

1-103. Compliance with this Executive Order, any other Executive Order licensing, authorizing, directing or compelling the transfer of the assets described in paragraph 1-101 of this  , or any regulations, instructions, or directions issued thereunder shall to the extent thereof be a full acquittance and discharge for all purposes of the obligation of the person making the same. No person shall be held liable in any court for or with respect to anything done or omitted in good faith in connection with the administration of, or pursuant to and in reliance on, such orders, regulations, instructions, or directions.

1-104. The Attorney General shall seek to intervene in any litigation within   which arises out of this   and shall, among other things, defend the legality of, and all actions taken pursuant to, each of its provisions.

1-105. The Secretary of the   is delegated and authorized to exercise all functions vested in the President by   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) to carry out the purposes of this  .

1-106. This   shall be effective immediately.
