1-1. Establishment of the  .

1-101. There is established  .

1-102. The   shall be composed of the following, or their representatives:

(a) The Secretary of the  .

(b) The Attorney General.

(c) The Secretary of  .

(d) The Secretary of  .

(e) The Secretary of  .

(f) The Director of  .

(g) The Administrator of  .

(h) The Chairman of  .

(i) The Executive Director of  .

1-103. The following, or their designated representatives, are invited to participate in the activities of  (a)  .

(b)  .

(c)  .

(d) Any other Executive agencies the   invites.

1-104. The Secretary of   shall be the Chairman of the  .

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall assist in interagency coordination of proposals affecting employee benefits under  . It shall identify the potential economic consequences of those proposals for ERISA participants.

1-202. The   shall develop comprehensive long-term and short-term policies applicable to the plans covered by  . The   shall identify and coordinate research into employee benefit issues affecting ERISA-covered employees, into the economic effects of private pensions, and into the effectiveness of  .

1-203. The   shall develop effective policy approaches to a comprehensive information-sharing program among   agencies, including development of a common or coordinated data base, data use, and publications. The   shall develop a program for the use of common facilities and a common information system.

1-204. The   shall identify inconsistencies in the operation of programs under ERISA. It shall recommend to the President ways to reduce or eliminate those inconsistencies.

1-205. Where feasible, the   should coordinate public participation through public hearings on governmentwide ERISA-related programs.

1-206. The   shall establish and maintain a mechanism to evaluate the effectiveness of the overall ERISA program.

1-207. The   shall submit   to the President a summary report of significant ERISA-related achievements of the member agencies.

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. The   shall meet at least once  .

1-302. Each member agency with respect to matters within the jurisdiction of the agency shall cooperate with and assist the   in performing its functions.

1-303. The Secretary of   shall be responsible for providing the   with such administrative services and support as may be necessary.

1-304. The   may establish such working groups or subcommittees as may be appropriate for the conduct of the  's functions.
