1-1.  .

1-101. Except as otherwise provided in this  , the following functions vested in the President by   of  , as amended (hereinafter referred to as the Act), are delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture: Titles I and IV (7 U.S.C.  , et seq., and  , et seq.).

1-102. The Secretary of Agriculture shall transmit the reports required by the provisions of paragraph 5 of the Act of   (71 Stat. 345; 7 U.S.C.  ).

1-103. The Secretary of  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , and the Assistant to the President for  , shall transmit to the   all reports required by Section 408 of the Act (   ).

1-2.  .

1-201. Administration of Title II. The functions vested in the President by Title II of the Act (7 U.S.C.  , et seq.) are delegated to the Director of  .

1-202. Other functions.

(a) The functions vested in the President by the Act of negotiating and entering into agreements with friendly countries are delegated to the Director of  . Such functions shall be exercised in accord with   of Title I of the United States Code and applicable regulations and procedures of  .

(b) The functions delegated to the Director of   by subsection (a) of this section are exclusive of any functions under Section 104 of the Act (7 U.S.C.  ) that are delegated to any other agency by this   and of functions under Section 310 of the Act (7 U.S.C.  ).

(c) The functions delegated by this   to the Director of   may be redelegated to the head of any other Executive agency.

1-3.  .

1-301. The Secretary of   shall perform the function of determining which countries are friendly countries within the meaning of Section 103(d) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1703(d) ).

1-302. The functions delegated by this   to the Secretary of   may be redelegated to the head of any Executive agency.

1-4.  .

1-401. (a) Foreign currencies which accrue under Title I of the Act (7 U.S.C.  , et seq.) may be used for the purposes set forth in Section 104 of the Act (7 U.S.C.  ) in amounts consistent with applicable provisions of law, sales agreements and loan assessments. Except as may be inconsistent with such law or agreements, priority shall be accorded to the sale of such currencies to appropriations or to their sale otherwise for dollars. The Director of   shall fix the amounts of such currencies to be used for the purpose set forth in Section 104 of the Act. The Director of   shall notify the Secretary of the   with respect to any amounts so fixed.

(b) The function vested in the President by the penultimate proviso of   (7 U.S.C.  ) of waiving the applicability of Section 1415 of the Supplemental Appropriation Act of   (31 U.S.C. 724) is delegated to the Director of   with respect to Section 104(e) of the Act and to the Director of   in all other respects.

1-402. The Secretary of the   shall issue regulations governing the purchase, custody, deposit, transfer and sale of foreign currencies received under the Act.

1-403. The provisions of   and 1-402 of this   shall not limit Sections 1-202 and 1-3 of this Order. The provisions of Section 1-402 of this   shall not limit Section 1-401 of this  .

1-404. The purposes of the following paragraphs of Section 104 of the Act (7 U.S.C.  ) shall be carried out as follows:

(a) Those under paragraph (a) by the agencies with authority to pay   obligations abroad.

(b) Those under paragraph (b) (1) by  .

(c) Those under paragraph (b) (2) by the agencies with responsibility for such functions.

(d) Those under paragraph (b) (3) of the Act as follows:

(1) Those with respect to collecting, collating, translating, abstracting, and disseminating scientific and technological information by the Director of   and the head of such other agency or agencies as the Director of   may designate after appropriate consultation;

(2) Those with respect to programs of culture and educational development, health, nutrition, and sanitation by the Director of  ,  , and the head of any other appropriate agency;

(3) All others by such agency or agencies as the Director of   may designate after appropriate consultation.

(4) The term "appropriate consultation" shall include consultation with the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the head of any other appropriate agency.

(e) Those under paragraph (b) (4) by   and any other agency or agencies designated by the Secretary of  .

(f) Those under paragraph (b) (5) by  .

(g) Those under paragraphs (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) by  .

(h) Those under paragraph (j) by   in consultation with  .

1-405. The functions vested in the President by   of the Act (7 U.S.C.  ) are delegated as follows:

(a) Those under paragraph (f) of determining the manner in which the loans provided for in that paragraph shall be made to the Director of  .

(b) Those under paragraph (j) of prescribing terms and conditions to the Secretary of the   in consultation with the Secretary of  .

1-406. In negotiating international agreements pursuant to the Act, the Secretary of   shall avoid restrictions which would limit the application of normal budgetary and appropriation controls to the use of foreign currencies accruing under Title I of the Act (7 U.S.C.  , et seq.) which are available for operations of  .

1-5. Revocations.

1-501. Executive  .   of  , as amended, is revoked.

1-502. The following   which have previously been superseded, at least in part, are revoked:

(a) Executive Order No.   of September 9,  ;

(b) Executive Order No.   of  ;

(c) Executive Order No.   of  ;

(d) Executive Order No.   of  ;

(e) Executive Order No.  ;

(f) Executive Order No. 10827 of June 25,  ;

(g) Executive Order No.   of  ; and

(h) Executive Order No.  , as amended, except Section 201 thereof.
