1-1. Establishment of Commission.

1-101. There is established  .

1-102. The membership of the   shall be composed of not more than 20 persons from among citizens in public and private life as follows:

(a) Sixteen members shall be appointed by the President, who shall designate a Chairman and two Vice Chairmen.

(b) The President of the   and the Speaker of   are each invited to designate two Members of their respective   to serve on the  .

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall develop factual data as to the causes of world hunger and malnutrition. It shall review existing authorities and programs, public and private, national and international, which seek to address the problems of hunger and malnutrition; and, shall assess the extent to which those programs are meeting their objectives, and why.

1-202. In developing its data and assessing existing programs, the   shall review existing studies on world hunger and malnutrition, conduct additional studies where necessary, and hold such hearings or inquiries as may be helpful.

1-203. The   shall develop recommendations designed to significantly reduce world hunger and malnutrition; and, shall develop various options for harnessing available resources to carry out those recommendations, including policy options for improving the capacity of   to reduce the problems of world hunger and malnutrition.

1-204. In developing its recommendations, the   shall encourage public participation by holding hearings, issuing reports, and coordinating, sponsoring, or overseeing projects, studies, and other activities related to the understanding of the problems of world hunger and malnutrition. The maximum use shall be made of past and ongoing related government efforts of that nature.

1-205. The   shall coordinate its functions with local, state, national, and international agencies and organizations where appropriate.

1-206. An interim report on the status of its work and on its tentative recommendations shall be submitted to the President no later than July 31, 1979.

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. The   may establish subcommittees. Private citizens who are not members of the   may be included as members of subcommittees.

1-302. The   may request any Executive agency to furnish such information, advice, and services as may be useful for the fulfillment of the  's functions under this  . Each agency shall designate an agency liaison with the   and shall, to the extent permitted by law and overriding priorities, and within the limits of available funds and personnel resources, furnish such information, advice, and services to the   upon the written request of the Chairman of the  .

1-303. The   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of a staff and such other persons as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions. The   may obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 3109 of Title 5 of the United States Code, to the extent funds are available therefor.

1-304. Each member of the   and its subcommittees may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for   he or she is engaged in meetings of the   or its subcommittees at a rate not to exceed the   rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for GS-15 of the General  , and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ) for persons employed intermittently in the government service.

1-305.   shall provide administrative services, facilities, and support to the   on a reimbursable basis.

1-306. All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the   shall be paid from the appropriation for "Unanticipated Needs" in  ,  , or from such other funds as may be available.

1-307. The functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by   as provided by Executive Order No.   of  .

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. The   shall conclude its work and submit a final report to the President   prior to its termination, including its recommendations for improving   capacity to reduce the problems of hunger and malnutrition.

1-402. The   shall terminate on   earlier as directed by the President.
