116 SJ 36 IS: Providing for congressional disapproval of the proposed transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and the Italian Republic of certain defense articles and services.
U.S. Senate
2019-06-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IIA
116th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. J. RES. 36
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 5, 2019
Mr. Menendez
(for himself,
Mr. Graham
,
Mr. Murphy
,
Mr. Paul
,
Mr. Leahy
,
Mr. Young
, and
Mr. Reed
) introduced the following joint resolution; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
JOINT RESOLUTION
Providing for congressional disapproval of the
proposed transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and the Italian
Republic of certain defense articles and services.
That the issuance of a manufacturing license, technical assistance license, or export license with respect to any of the following proposed agreements or transfers to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and the Italian Republic is prohibited:
(1)
The transfer of the following defense articles, including defense services and technical data, described in Executive Communication 1427 (EC–1427) submitted to Congress pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 36 of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2776
) and published in the Congressional Record on June 3, 2019:
(A)
Coproduction and manufacture in Saudi Arabia of Paveway Pre-Amp Circuit Card Assemblies (CCA), Guidance Electronics Assembly (GEA) CCAs, and Control Actuator System (CAS) CCAs for all Paveway variants.
(B)
Coproduction and manufacture in Saudi Arabia of Paveway II Guidance Electronics Detector Assemblies (GEDA) and Computer Control Groups (CCG).
(C)
The transfer of up to 64,603 additional kits, partial kits, and full-up-rounds.
