1.
Short Title
This Act may be cited as the
Workers Opportunity and Retraining Competitive Grant Program Act of 2015
or the
WORC Grant Program Act of 2015
.
2.
Manufacturing Worker Transition Scholarship Program
(a)
Amendment
Subtitle D of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 2916
) is amended by adding after section 171 the following new section:
171A.
Manufacturing worker transition scholarship program
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a manufacturing worker scholarship program to award States competitive grants to be used to provide scholarships to dislocated workers or unemployed individuals through State and local boards to support worker’s endeavors to transition into manufacturing positions.
(b)
Eligibility
(1)
Worker Eligibility
To be eligible for the scholarship program established under this section, dislocated workers or unemployed individuals shall be enrolled in a qualifying manufacturing training course designed to provide skills for employment in manufacturing.
(2)
Program Eligibility
State or local boards participating in the scholarship program established under this section shall—
(A)
have formal agreements or partnerships with qualifying manufacturing training course providers; and
(B)
have commitments from local employers, community leaders, and State or local economic development initiatives to mentor dislocated workers or unemployed individuals in order to aid their transition into manufacturing industries.
(c)
Activities
(1)
In General
Activities to be carried out under the scholarship program established under this section shall be coordinated by State or local boards, including transferring scholarship awards to qualifying manufacturing training course providers on behalf of the dislocated workers or unemployed individuals receiving scholarships.
(2)
State and Local Board Discretion
For purposes of scholarship awards distributed by a State or local board, such board shall define the term
manufacturing
.
(3)
Repayment Upon Eligibility Violations
If a dislocated worker or unemployed individual does not complete the qualifying manufacturing training course or substitutes non-manufacturing courses for manufacturing courses, the amount of the awarded scholarship shall be repaid to the State or local board.
(d)
Limitations
(1)
Monetary Award Limit
Scholarship funding for any dislocated worker or unemployed individual may not exceed $2,000 per year.
(2)
Eligibility Limit
Scholarship funding for any dislocated worker or unemployed individual may not exceed 2 years.
(3)
Scholarship Use Limit
A scholarship awarded under this section may only be used for payment towards qualifying manufacturing training courses.
(4)
Supportive Services Limit
A scholarship awarded under this section may not be used for supportive services.
(e)
Qualifying Manufacturing Training Course Defined
The term
qualifying manufacturing training course
—
(1)
means any course or job training activity that is offered by a postsecondary educational institution, area vocational education school, or other eligible provider that—
(A)
provides knowledge and skills related to manufacturing in emerging industries or industries where there are jobs available in the community, as determined by a State or local board; and
(B)
offers credits or other credentials to enrollees for completion of the program; and
(2)
may include internships or apprenticeships that provide credit or other credentials for completion of the program.
.
(b)
Table of contents amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 171 the following new item:
Sec. 171A. Manufacturing worker transition scholarship program.
.
