1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Success in Transition for All Veterans Act
.
2.
Research program to evaluate effectiveness of Transition Assistance Program in addressing needs of certain minority veterans
(a)
Research program
Beginning not later than June 1, 2017, the Secretary of Labor, in collaboration with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense, shall carry out a research program to evaluate the Transition Assistance Program under section 1144 of title 10, United States Code. Such research program shall be designed to determine how effectively the Transition Assistance Program addresses the differentiated needs, challenges, and post-military service aspirations of women veterans, veterans with disabilities, Native American veterans, veterans who are residents of a territory of the United States, veterans who are part of the indigenous population of a territory of the United States, and other groups of minority veterans identified by the Secretaries.
(b)
Issues addressed
The Secretary of Labor shall ensure that the research program required under subsection (a) addresses each of the following issues:
(1)
In the context of the transition experience, whether and how the barriers to employment facing women veterans, veterans with disabilities, Native American veterans, veterans who are residents of a territory of the United States, veterans who are part of the indigenous population of a territory of the United States, and other identified groups of minority veterans are substantively different from other populations of the veteran community.
(2)
In the context of the transition experience, whether and how the post-military service employment aspirations such groups of veterans covered by the research project are substantively different from such aspirations of other populations of the veteran community.
(3)
To the extent that any barriers to employment or aspirations are identified under paragraph (1) or (2) as being substantially different for any of the groups of veterans covered by the research project, whether the Transition Assistance Program is designed to appropriately address those differences.
(4)
To the extent that the Transition Assistance Program is determined not to be designed to appropriately address a difference under paragraph (3), an identification of any change that could be made to the Program to more appropriately address such difference.
(c)
Report required
Not later than one year after the date of the commencement of the research program under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall submit to Congress a report on the research program.
