1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safe Drug Disposal Tax Credit Act of 2016
.
2.
Drug disposal program credit
(a)
In general
Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
45S.
Drug disposal program credit
(a)
General rule
For purposes of section 38, in the case of an eligible entity, the drug disposal program credit determined under this section for a taxable year is 30 percent of the qualified drug disposal program costs of such entity for the taxable year.
(b)
Definitions
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Qualified drug disposal program costs
The term
qualified drug disposal program costs
means amounts paid or incurred by an eligible entity for establishing or maintaining a drug disposal site, including amounts for materials for such site, outreach and training about the use of such site, and safe disposal of drugs collected at such site.
(2)
Drug disposal site
The term
drug disposal site
means a location where individuals can, free of charge, deposit drugs to be disposed of legally.
(3)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means an entity authorized under the Controlled Substances Act to dispose of controlled substances.
(4)
Drug
The term
drug
has the meaning given such term in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and includes a biological product, as defined in section 351 of the Public Health Service Act.
(c)
Basis adjustment
If a credit is determined under this section with respect to any property, the basis of such property shall be reduced by the amount of the credit so determined.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Section 38(b) of such Code is amended by striking
plus
at the end of paragraph (35), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (36) and inserting
, plus
, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(37)
in the case of an eligible entity (as defined in section 45S(b)), the drug disposal program credit determined under section 45S.
.
(2)
Section 1016(a) of such Code is amended by striking
and
at the end of paragraph (36), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (37) and inserting
, and
, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(38)
in the case of property with respect to which a credit was allowed under section 45S, to the extent provided in section 45S(c).
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 45R the following new item:
Sec. 45S. Drug disposal program credit.
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section apply with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2016.
