1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Comfortable and Fair Flight Act
.
2.
Requirements for aircraft lavatories and baggage refunds
(a)
In general
Subbchapter I of
chapter 417
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
41725.
Aircraft lavatories.
(a)
Prohibition on fee for use of lavatory
An air carrier operating an aircraft in air transportation may not charge an individual with a passenger ticket for such air transportation a fee for the use of a lavatory on such aircraft.
(b)
Prohibition on change fee for air transportation on aircraft without functioning lavatory
If an aircraft operated in air transportation lacks an adequate number (as determined by the Secretary) of functioning lavatories at the time of boarding of such aircraft, the air carrier operating such aircraft shall permit an individual with a passenger ticket for such air transportation to select alternative equivalent air transportation operated by such carrier without charging such individual an additional fee.
41726.
Baggage fee refund for delayed baggage.
With respect to an individual with a passenger ticket for air transportation, the air carrier providing such air transportation shall refund to such individual any fee imposed on such individual for baggage transported on such air transportation if such baggage does not arrive at the scheduled destination for such baggage before the time that is two hours after the arrival of such individual at such destination.
.
(b)
Regulations
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out the amendment made by subsection (a).
(c)
Applicability
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to air transportation that originates on or after the date that is 60 days after the date that regulations are issued pursuant to subsection (b).
(d)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 417
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 41724
the following:
41725. Aircraft lavatories.
41726. Baggage fee refund for delayed baggage.
.
