1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
JCPOA Intelligence Enforcement Act of 2016
.
2.
JCPOA monitoring
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall establish an integration cell among relevant elements of the United States intelligence community to integrate intelligence related to monitoring and enforcement of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (hereinafter referred to as the
JCPOA
). The integration cell established under this subsection shall be known as the
IC Iran Integration Cell
(hereinafter referred to as
the Integration Cell
).
(b)
Primary functions
The primary functions of the Integration Cell areГўВҖВ”
(1)
to coordinate and synchronize all collection related to implementation of the JCPOA;
(2)
to integrate the early warning systems of intelligence agencies with respect to potential violations of the JCPOA; and
(3)
to identify intelligence gaps related to monitoring of the JCPOA.
(c)
Leadership
(1)
In general
The Integration Cell shall be headed by a member of the Senior Intelligence Service, who shall report to the Director of National Intelligence.
(2)
Staffing
The cell may be staffed through detailees, assignees, or core contractor personnel who would otherwise conduct such work as part of their normal responsibilities.
(d)
Reports
Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to Congress a report on the Integration Cell that includes each of the following:
(1)
A detailed description of the activities of the Integration Cell.
(2)
An assessment of the awareness of the Integration Cell of IranГўВҖВҷs compliance with the JCPOA.
(3)
Recommendations for better collection regarding IranГўВҖВҷs compliance.
3.
Sense of Congress regarding establishment of joint intelligence fusion cell
It is the sense of Congress that the intelligence community should establish a joint fusion cell with members of the Gulf Cooperation Council toГўВҖВ”
(1)
combat IranГўВҖВҷs malevolent regional activities, including IranГўВҖВҷs support for terrorist proxy entities, such as Hezbollah;
(2)
find and disrupt illicit transfers of weapons and material, in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231; and
(3)
protect the territorial integrity of key partner nations.
4.
Sense of Congress regarding joint United States-Israel intelligence cooperation
It is the sense of Congress thatГўВҖВ”
(1)
the Director of National Intelligence should establish a United States-Israel intelligence working group focused specifically on the Iranian threat; and
(2)
such working group should meet on a regular basis to enhance intelligence sharing on threats, includingГўВҖВ”
(A)
Iranian support for Hezbollah and other terrorist actors;
(B)
Iranian illicit smuggling of conventional weapons;
(C)
monitoring and collection of intelligence on IranГўВҖВҷs ballistic missile and space programs, including its pursuit of satellite programs; and
(D)
monitoring and collection of intelligence on IranГўВҖВҷs nuclear activities.
