1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Dangerous Products Warning Act
.
2.
Dangerous products
(a)
In general
Part 1 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 27 the following:
28
Dangerous products
Sec.
571. Violations.
572. Relationship to existing law.
573. Construction.
574. Definitions for chapter.
571.
Violations
(a)
Failure To inform and warn
Whoever—
(1)
is a business entity or a product supervisor with respect to a product or business practice;
(2)
knows of a serious danger associated with such product (or a component of that product) or business
practice; and
(3)
knowingly fails within 15 days after such discovery is made (or if there is imminent risk of
serious bodily injury or death, immediately) to do any of the following:
(A)
To inform an appropriate Federal agency in writing, unless such product supervisor has actual
knowledge that such an agency has been so informed.
(B)
To warn affected employees in writing, unless such product supervisor has actual knowledge that
such employees have been so warned.
(C)
To inform persons other than affected employees at risk if they can reasonably be identified.
shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(b)
Retaliation
Whoever knowingly discriminates against any person in the terms or conditions of employment or in
retention in employment or in hiring because of such person’s having
informed a Federal agency or warned employees of a serious danger
associated with a product or business practice shall be fined under this
title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
(c)
Nonpayment by business entities
If a fine is imposed on an individual under this section, such fine shall not be paid, directly or
indirectly, out of the assets of any business entity on behalf of that
individual.
572.
Relationship to existing law
(a)
Rights To intervene
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the right of any individual or group of
individuals to initiate, intervene in, or otherwise participate in any
proceeding before a regulatory agency or court, nor to relieve any
regulatory agency, court, or other public body of any obligation, or
affect its discretion to permit intervention or participation by an
individual or group or class of consumers, employees or citizens in any
proceeding or activity.
(b)
State law
Nothing in this chapter preempts any State law or otherwise affects any State authority to adopt or
enforce any State law.
573.
Construction
This chapter shall be construed in such a manner as best to represent and protect the interests of
the public.
574.
Definitions for chapter
In this chapter—
(1)
the term
product supervisor
—
(A)
means—
(i)
an officer or director of a corporation or an association;
(ii)
a partner of a partnership; or
(iii)
any employee or other agent of a corporation, association, or partnership having duties such that
the conduct of such employee or agent may fairly be assumed to represent
the policy of the corporation, association, or partnership; and
(B)
includes persons having management responsibility for—
(i)
submissions to a Federal agency regarding the development or approval of any product;
(ii)
production, quality assurance, or quality control of any product; or
(iii)
research and development of any product;
(2)
the term
product
means a product or service of a business entity that enters or will enter interstate commerce;
(3)
the term
business entity
means any corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, or other business entity or a sole
proprietor;
(4)
the term
business practice
means a method or practice of manufacturing, assembling, designing, researching, importing or
distributing a product that enters or will enter interstate commerce,
conducting, providing or preparing to provide a service that enters or
will enter interstate commerce, or otherwise carrying out business
operations related to products or services that enter or will enter
interstate commerce;
(5)
the term
serious danger
, used with respect to a product or business practice, means a danger, not readily apparent to the
average person, that the normal or reasonably foreseeable use of, or the
exposure of a human being to, that product or business practice may cause
death or serious bodily injury to a human being;
(6)
the term
serious bodily injury
means an impairment of physical condition, including as result of trauma, repetitive motion or
disease, that—
(A)
creates a substantial risk of death; or
(B)
causes—
(i)
serious permanent disfigurement;
(ii)
unconsciousness;
(iii)
extreme pain; or
(iv)
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member, organ, bodily
system, or mental faculty;
(7)
the term
appropriate Federal agency
means any agency with jurisdiction over the product or business practice; and
(8)
the term
warn affected employees
, used with respect to a serious danger, means take reasonable steps to give sufficient description
of the serious danger to all individuals working for or in the business
entity who are likely to be subject to the serious danger in the course of
that work to make those individuals aware of that danger.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of chapters for title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting, after the item
relating to chapter 27 the following:
28.
Dangerous products
571
.
3.
Effective date
The amendments made by this Act take effect 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
