1.
Short title
The Act may be cited as the
Partners for Aviation Security Act
.
2.
Aviation Security Advisory Committee consultation
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall consult, to the extent practicable, with the Aviation Security Advisory Committee (established pursuant to section 44946 of title 49 of the United States Code) regarding any modification to the prohibited item list prior to issuing a determination about any such modification.
3.
Report on the Transportation Security Oversight Board
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall submit to the Transportation Security Oversight Board (established pursuant to section 115 of title 49, United States Code), the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report that includes general information on how often the Board has met, the current composition of the Board, and what activities the Board has undertaken, consistent with the duties specified in subsection (c) of such section. The Administrator may include in such report recommendations for changes to such section in consideration of the provisions of section 44946 of title 49, United States Code.
4.
Technical correction
Subparagraph (A) of section 4946(c)(2) of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(A)
Terms
The term of each member of the Advisory Committee shall be two years but may continue until such time as a successor member begins serving on the Advisory Committee. A member of the Advisory Committee may be reappointed.
.
5.
Definition
In this Act, the term
prohibited item list
means the list of items passengers are prohibited from carrying as accessible property or on their persons through passenger screening checkpoints at airports, into sterile areas at airports, and on board passenger aircraft, pursuant to section 1540.111 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 2015).
