1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Harry Lew Military Hazing Accountability and Prevention Act
.
2.
Improved Department of Defense prevention of and response to hazing in the Armed Forces
(a)
Anti-Hazing Database
The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the establishment and use of a comprehensive and consistent data-collection system for the collection of reports, including anonymous reports, of incidents of hazing involving a member of the Armed Forces. The Secretary shall issue department-wide guidance regarding the availability and use of the database, including information on protected classes, such as race and religion, who are often the victims of hazing.
(b)
Improved training
The Secretary of each military department, in consultation with the Chief of Staff of each Armed Force under the jurisdiction of such Secretary, shall seek to improve training to assist members of the Armed Forces to better recognize, prevent, and respond to hazing at all command levels.
(c)
Annual Survey
The Secretary of each military department, in consultation with the Chief of Staff of each Armed Force under the jurisdiction of such Secretary, shall conduct an annual survey among members of each Armed Force under the jurisdiction of such Secretary to determine the following:
(1)
The prevalence of hazing in the Armed Force.
(2)
The effectiveness of training provided members of the Armed Force to recognize and prevent hazing.
(3)
The extent to which members of the Armed Force report, including anonymously report, incidents of hazing.
(d)
Annual reports on hazing
(1)
Report required
Not later than January 31 of each year through January 31, 2021, the Secretary of each military department, in consultation with the Chief of Staff of each Armed Force under the jurisdiction of such Secretary, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing a description of efforts during the previous year—
(A)
to prevent and to respond to incidents of hazing involving members of the Armed Forces;
(B)
to track and encourage reporting, including reporting anonymously, incidents of hazing in the Armed Force; and
(C)
to ensure the consistent implementation of anti-hazing policies.
(2)
Additional Elements
Each report required by this subsection also shall address the same elements originally addressed in the anti-hazing reports required by section 534 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1726).
