1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Mass Killings By Violent Terrorists Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds as follows:
(1)
In 2015, there were 64 shootings at elementary and secondary schools in the United States, and 372 mass shootings, which claimed the lives of 475 persons and left 1,870 victims injured.
(2)
More than 300,000 persons lost their lives as a result of gun violence during the period from 2005 through 2015.
(3)
On June 13, 2016, in Orlando, Florida, 49 persons were killed in the deadliest mass shooting in the history of the United States.
3.
Federal firearms licensees required to conduct criminal background check before transfer of large
capacity ammunition feeding device to non-licensee
Section 922(t) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(7)
For purposes of this subsection:
(A)
The term
firearm
includes a large capacity ammunition feeding device.
(B)
The term
large capacity ammunition feeding device
has the meaning given in section 921(a)(31) of this title, as in effect on the date of the enactment of the Violent Crime and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (
Public Law 103–322
).
.
4.
Prohibition on transfer of semiautomatic assault weapon or large capacity ammunition feeding device
by federally licensed firearms importer, manufacturer, or dealer to
non-licensee until answers of prospective transferee to questions about
existence and nature of recent contacts by Federal law enforcement
authorities have been verified
Section 922(t) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 3 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
The Attorney General shall ensure that the information required to be provided by a person not licensed under this chapter who is seeking to obtain a firearm from a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer shall include written responses to such questions as the Attorney General shall develop concerning the existence and nature of any contact the person has had with any Federal law enforcement authority in the prior 24 months.
(9)
If the firearm is a semiautomatic assault weapon (as defined in section 921(a)(30) of this title, as in effect on the date of the enactment of the Violent Crime and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (
Public Law 103–322
)) or a large capacity ammunition feeding device—
(A)
paragraph (1)(B)(ii) of this subsection shall not apply; and
(B)
the system shall not indicate to the transferor that the transferor may proceed with the transfer unless the Attorney General has verified the truthfulness of the written responses given by such other person to the questions referred to in paragraph (8) of this subsection.
(10)
If a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer has presented the prospective transferee of a semiautomatic assault weapon or large capacity ammunition feeding device with the questions referred to in paragraph (8), and the prospective transferee refuses or fails to answer the questions in writing, the licensee shall submit to the Attorney General such information as the prospective transferee has provided for further review or investigation.
.
