1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act of 2016
.
2.
Jurisdiction over offenses committed by United States personnel stationed in Canada
(a)
Amendment
Chapter 212A
of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the chapter heading, by striking
TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS
; and
(2)
by adding after section 3272 the following:
3273.
Offenses committed by United States personnel stationed in Canada in furtherance of border security
initiatives
(a)
In general
Whoever, while employed by any department or agency of the United States other than the Department of Defense and stationed or deployed in Canada pursuant to a treaty or executive agreement in furtherance of a border security initiative, engages in conduct (or conspires or attempts to engage in conduct) in Canada that would constitute an offense for which a person may be prosecuted in a court of the United States had the conduct been engaged in within the United States or within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States shall be punished as provided for that offense.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Employed by any department or agency of the united states other than the department of defense
The term
employed by any department or agency of the United States other than the Department of Defense
means—
(A)
being employed as a civilian employee, a contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier), an employee of a contractor (or a subcontractor at any tier), a grantee (including a contractor of a grantee or a subgrantee or subcontractor at any tier), or an employee of a grantee (or a contractor of a grantee or a subgrantee or subcontractor at any tier) of any department or agency of the United States other than the Department of Defense;
(B)
being present or residing in Canada in connection with such employment; and
(C)
not being a national of or ordinarily resident in Canada.
(2)
Grant agreement
The term
grant agreement
means a legal instrument described in section 6304 or 6305 of title 31, other than an agreement between the United States and a State, local, or foreign government or an international organization.
(3)
Grantee
The term
grantee
means a party, other than the United States, to a grant agreement.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendments
Part II of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the table of chapters, by striking the item relating to chapter 212A and inserting the following:
212A.
Extraterritorial jurisdiction over certain offenses
3271
.
(2)
in the table of sections for chapter 212A, by inserting after the item relating to section 3272 the following:
3273. Offenses committed by United States personnel stationed in Canada in furtherance of border
security initiatives.
.
