1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Support for Student Veterans with Families Act
.
2.
Department of Veterans Affairs grants to educational institutions for provision of child care services
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 36
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
3699.
Grants to educational institutions for provision of child care services
(a)
In general
The Secretary may make a grant to an eligible educational institution for the purpose of providing child care services on the campus of the educational institution to students enrolled in courses of education offered by the educational institution.
(b)
Eligible educational institution
To be eligible for a grant under this section, an educational institution shall—
(1)
offer a course of education that is approved as provided in this chapter and chapters 34 and 35 of this title by the State approving agency where the educational institution is located; and
(2)
submit to the Secretary an application containing such information and assurances as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Use of funds
(1)
An educational institution that receives a grant under this section shall use the grant to—
(A)
establish or expand a child care center on the campus of the educational institution; or
(B)
pay the costs of providing child care services to students enrolled in courses of education offered by the educational institution at a child care center located on the campus of the educational institution.
(2)
The Secretary shall require, as a condition of a grant under this section, that the educational institution that receives the grant provides at least 75 percent of the new child care services funded by the grant to students who are veterans.
(d)
Limitation
The Secretary may not make more than 50 grants under this section for fiscal year 2016.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting at the end of the items relating to subchapter II the following new item:
3699. Grants to educational institutions for provision of child care services.
.
