1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Pipeline Jobs and Safety Act of 2015
.
2.
American steel
Section 60102 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(q)
American steel
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall prescribe minimum safety standards requiring that any pipeline subject to this chapter that is constructed or replaced after such date of enactment be made of steel that—
(A)
is produced in the United States; and
(B)
originates from iron ore and taconite mined and processed in the United States.
(2)
Use of recycled materials
For purposes of this subsection, steel that is recycled in the United States shall be considered to be steel described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) if the recycled materials are combined with iron ore and taconite mined and processed in the United States.
(3)
Waivers
(A)
In general
In prescribing safety standards under this subsection, the Secretary shall permit a waiver of the requirements of paragraph (1) to the extent that the Secretary determines such a waiver is necessary based on the estimate prepared under subparagraph (B).
(B)
Annual demand and supply estimate
The Secretary shall prepare annually an estimate of—
(i)
the amount of steel likely to be needed to be produced to meet the requirements of paragraph (1); and
(ii)
the production capacity of United States producers of steel described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of such paragraph.
(C)
Approval of sources
The Secretary shall ensure that steel permitted to be used in pipelines pursuant to a waiver under this paragraph meets the same standards as steel described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1), and shall publish a list of approved sources of steel so permitted.
.
3.
Inspection and testing
(a)
Testing
Section 60108(b) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Testing under this subsection shall include direct, pre-installation testing by the Secretary of pipelines for quality verification.
.
(b)
Authorization of appropriations
Section 60125 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Inspection and testing
There is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each fiscal year to carry out direct, pre-installation inspection and testing of pipelines under this chapter, including testing of pipelines under section 60108(b)(4) and testing and inspection of steel pursuant to section 60102(q).
.
