1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Gun Dealer Accountability Act
.
2.
Greater discretion in issuing Federal firearms licenses
Section 923 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c), by striking
shall issue
and inserting
may issue
; and
(2)
in subsection (d)(1), by striking
shall be
and inserting
may be
.
3.
Authorization of temporarily greater scrutiny of Federal firearms licensees who have transferred a
firearm unlawfully or had 10 or more crime guns traced back to them in the
preceding
2
years
(a)
Authority to temporarily increase frequency of inspections
Section 923(g)(1)(B)(ii)(I) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
, except that this subclause shall not apply with respect to a licensee if, in the preceding 2 years, a court has found the licensee to have transferred a firearm unlawfully or the Attorney General has found that 10 or more firearms used in crimes have been traced back to the licensee
before the semicolon.
(b)
Authority to temporarily require conduct of a physical inventory of firearms business
(1)
The matter under the heading
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives—Salaries and Expenses
in title II of division B of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (
18 U.S.C. 923
note;
Public Law 113–6
; 127 Stat. 248) is amended in the 5th proviso by inserting
, unless the rule applies only to a business of a licensee if, in the preceding 2 years, a court has found the licensee to have transferred a firearm unlawfully or the Attorney General has found that 10 or more firearms used in crimes have been traced back to the licensee
before the colon.
(2)
The matter under the heading
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives—Salaries and Expenses
in title I of division B of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2012 (
18 U.S.C. 923
note;
Public Law 112–55
; 125 Stat. 609–610) is amended in the 7th proviso by inserting
, unless the rule applies only to a business of a licensee if, in the preceding 2 years, a court has found the licensee to have transferred a firearm unlawfully or the Attorney General has found that 10 or more firearms used in crimes have been traced back to the licensee
before the colon.
