1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Renewable Fuel Utilization, Expansion, and Leadership Act
or the
REFUEL Act
.
2.
Renewable fuel infrastructure grant program
Title IX of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (
7 U.S.C. 8101
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
9014.
Renewable and alternative energy infrastructure grant program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a renewable and alternative energy infrastructure competitive grant program to provide grants for renewable and alternative energy infrastructure projects.
(b)
Eligible projects
A project shall be eligible for a grant under subsection (a) if the project—
(1)
is for new renewable and alternative energy infrastructure or retrofitting existing renewable and alternative energy infrastructure for the dispensing of covered renewable or alternative energy for retail consumption; and
(2)
will be capable of dispensing fuel containing an amount of covered renewable or alternative energy that is higher than ordinarily found in commerce, as determined by the Secretary.
(c)
Prioritization
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to projects in rural areas.
(d)
Maximum grant
A grant awarded under this section shall not exceed $100,000.
(e)
Matching funds
An entity that receives a grant under this section shall contribute an amount of non-Federal funds towards the project for which such entity receives such grant that is at least equal to 30 percent of the amount of grant funds received by such entity under this section for such project.
(f)
Funding
(1)
In general
From amounts received by the United States each fiscal year as royalties for the production of oil under oil and gas leases granted under section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (
43 U.S.C. 1337
), 1 percent shall be available to the Secretary to carry out this section.
(2)
Other disbursements not affected
Paragraph (1) shall not affect any requirement to use amounts described in paragraph (1) to make payments for any other purpose.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered renewable or alternative energy
The term
covered renewable or alternative energy
means renewable energy, energy intended for use in electric vehicle charging, and hydrogen and fuel cells.
(2)
Renewable and alternative energy infrastructure
The term
renewable and alternative energy infrastructure
includes pumps, storage tanks, internal tank lining, piping, and electric vehicle chargers used in the process of dispensing fuel containing covered renewable or alternative energy.
.
