HEADQUARTERS OF THE  ,

 -GENERAL'S OFFICE

The following orders from  , which have been approved by the President, are published for the information and government of the   and of all concerned:

The commanding generals of the Second, Third, Fourth, and   having officially reported that the   of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have fully complied with the acts of   known as the reconstruction acts, including the act passed  , entitled "An act to admit   to representation in  ," and the act passed  , entitled "An act to admit  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   to representation in  ," and that, consequently, so much of the act of  , and the acts supplementary thereto as provides for the organization of military districts, subject to the military authority of  , as therein provided. has become inoperative in said  , and that the commanding generals have ceased to exercise in said States the military powers conferred by said acts of  : Therefore the following changes will be made in the organization and command of military districts and geographical departments:

I. The Second and Third Military Districts having ceased to exist,  ,  ,  ,  , and   will constitute  , Major-General   to command. Headquarters at  ,  

II. The Fourth Military District will now consist only of  , and will continue to be commanded by  .

III.   will now consist of  , and will be commanded by    . Headquarters at  ,  

IV.   and   will constitute  . Brevet Major-General   is assigned to the command. Headquarters at  ,   Until the arrival of General   at.  , Brevet Major-General   will command the  .

  Major-General   is assigned, according to his brevet of major-general, to command  , in place of  , relieved.

VI. Brevet   is reassigned to command  .

By command of General Grant:

 ,

Assistant Adjutant-General.

Under and in pursuance of the authority vested in the President of   by the provisions of the second section of the act of   approved on  , entitled "An act to extend the laws of   relating to customs, commerce. and navigation over the territory ceded to   by  , to establish a collection district therein, and for other purposes," the port of  . said  , is hereby constituted and established as the port of entry for the collection district of   provided for by said act; and under and in pursuance of the authority vested in him by the fourth section of said act the importation and use of firearms, ammunition, and distilled spirits into and within the said Territory, or any portion thereof, except as hereinafter provided. is entirely prohibited, under the pains and penalties specified in said last-named section: Provided, however. That under such regulations as the Secretary of the   may prescribe in accordance with law. such articles may, in limited quantities, be shipped coastwise from   ports on the Pacific coast to said port of  , and to that port only in said Territory, on the shipper giving bonds to the collector of customs at the port of shipment, conditioned that such articles will on their arrival at   be delivered to the collector of customs, the person there acting as such, to remain in his possession and under his control until sold or disposed of to such persons as the military or other chief authority in said  . may specially designate in permits for that purpose signed by himself or a subordinate duly authorized by him.

Done at the city of  ,  , A. D.  , and of   the  .

 ,

President.
