Section 1

.

Policy

. On   in office, I signed Executive Order   ( ), which charged   with advancing equity for all, including communities that have long been underserved, and addressing systemic racism in our  's policies and programs. By advancing equity,   can support and empower all  , including the many communities in   that have been underserved, discriminated against, and adversely affected by persistent poverty and inequality. We can also deliver resources and benefits equitably to the people of   and rebuild trust in  .

Over  , through landmark legislation—including   of   (Public Law 117-2); the bipartisan   (Public Law 117-58) (Bipartisan Infrastructure Law); division A of Public Law 117-167, known as   to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) Act of  ; Public Law 117-169, commonly referred to as the Inflation Reduction Act of  ; and   well as executive action, my Administration has vigorously championed racial equity and has advanced equal opportunity for underserved communities. Executive departments and agencies (agencies) have engaged in historic work assessing how their policies and programs perpetuate barriers for underserved communities and developing strategies for removing those barriers. They have made important progress incorporating an evidence-based approach to equitable policymaking and implementation, and they have crafted new action plans to advance equity. In short, my Administration has embedded a focus on equity into the fabric of Federal policymaking and service delivery. Our work to transform the way   serves the   people has been complemented by Executive Order   ( , and   in the Federal Workforce), which continues to help ensure that my Administration—the most diverse in our  's history—reflects the growing diversity of the communities we serve.

My Administration's commitment to equity has produced better decision-making and more equitable outcomes. We have delivered the most equitable economic recovery in memory, and, driven by the expanded Child Tax Credit, we cut child poverty to its lowest rate on record in  , including record low  ,  , and rural child poverty. Under my Administration, the economy has created nearly 11 million jobs, and we have brought down unemployment nationwide—in particular for   workers, for whom unemployment rates are near   lows.   has provided emergency rental assistance to help millions of families stay in their homes, and we have prohibited Federal contractors from paying people with disabilities subminimum wages. We are rebuilding roads and bridges, replacing the  's lead pipes to provide clean drinking water for all, delivering access to affordable high-speed internet to   in both rural and urban communities, investing in public transit, and reconnecting communities previously cut off from economic opportunity by highways, rail lines, or disinvestment. My Administration has provided funding to improve accessibility for passengers with disabilities on rail systems and in airports, expanded health coverage for millions of  , and expanded home- and community-based services so more people with disabilities and older adults can live independently. We have secured billions of dollars in direct new investments for   and   communities and have directed an increase in the share of   contract spending awarded to small disadvantaged businesses.   has taken action to strengthen public safety, advance criminal justice reform, correct our country's failed approach to marijuana, protect civil rights, and stand up against rising extremism and hate-fueled violence that threaten the fabric of our democracy. We have taken historic steps to advance full equality for lesbian, gay,  , transgender, queer, and intersex (LGBTQI+)  , including by ending the ban on transgender service members in our military; prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, and sex characteristics across   programs; and signing into law   (Public Law 117-228) to preserve protections for the rights of same-sex and interracial couples. My Administration is also implementing the first-ever   to ensure that all people, regardless of gender, have the opportunity to realize their full potential.

These transformative achievements have advanced the work of building a more equitable Nation. Yet, members of underserved communities—many of whom have endured generations of discrimination and disinvestment—still confront significant barriers to realizing the full promise of our great Nation, and   has a responsibility to remove these barriers. It is imperative to reject the narrow, cramped view of   opportunity as a zero-sum game. When any person or community is denied freedom, dignity, and prosperity, our entire   is held back. But when we lift each other up, we are all lifted up. Therefore, my Administration must take additional action across  —in collaboration with civil society, the private sector, and   and local government—to continue the work begun with Executive Order   to combat discrimination and advance equal opportunity, including by redressing unfair disparities and removing barriers to Government programs and services. Achieving racial equity and support for underserved communities is not a one-time project. It must be a multi-generational commitment, and it must remain the responsibility of agencies across  . It therefore continues to be the policy of my Administration to advance an ambitious, whole-of-government approach to racial equity and support for underserved communities and to continuously embed equity into all aspects of Federal decision-making.

This order builds upon my previous equity-related   by extending and strengthening equity-advancing requirements for agencies, and it positions agencies to deliver better outcomes for the   people. In doing so, the   shall continue to pursue ambitious goals to build a strong, fair, and inclusive workforce and economy; invest in communities where   policies have historically impeded equal opportunity—both rural and urban—in ways that mitigate economic displacement, expand access to capital, preserve housing and neighborhood affordability, root out discrimination in the housing market, and build community wealth; advance equity in health, including mental and behavioral health and well-being; deliver an equitable response to the   pandemic; deliver environmental justice and implement the Justice40 Initiative; build prosperity in rural communities; ensure equitable procurement practices, including through small disadvantaged businesses contracting and the Buy Indian Act (25 U.S.C.  ); pursue educational equity so that our  's schools put every student on a path to success; improve our  's criminal justice system to end unjust disparities, strengthen public safety, and ensure equal justice under law; promote equity in science and root out bias in the design and use of new technologies, such as artificial intelligence; protect the right to vote and realize the promise of our  's civil rights laws; and promote equity and human rights around the world through our foreign policy and foreign assistance. By redoubling our efforts,   can help bridge the gap between the world we see and the future we seek.

 . 2

.

Establishing Equity-Focused Leadership Across  . (a)

Establishment of Agency Equity Teams

. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  ,  ,  , the Administrator of  , the Administrator of  ,  , the Director of  , and the Director of   (agency heads) shall, within   of the date of this order, ensure that they have in place an   within their respective agencies to coordinate the implementation of equity initiatives and ensure that their respective agencies are delivering equitable outcomes for the   people.

(i) Each Agency Equity Team shall be led by a designated senior official (senior designee) charged with implementing my  's equity initiatives, and shall include senior officials from the office of the agency head and the agency's program, policy, civil rights, regulatory, science, technology, service delivery, financial assistance and grants, data, budget, procurement, public engagement, legal, and evaluation offices, as well as the agency's Chief Diversity Officer, to the extent applicable. Agency Equity Teams shall include a combination of competitive service employees, as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2102(a), and appointees, as defined in Executive Order   (Ethics Commitments by Executive Branch Personnel), and, to the extent practicable, shall build upon and coordinate with the agency's existing structures and processes, including with the agency's environmental justice officer designated pursuant to Executive Order   (Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad), and with the senior agency official designated to coordinate with   pursuant to Executive Order   of   (Establishment of  ).

(ii) The senior designee at each agency shall be responsible for delivering equitable outcomes, to the extent consistent with applicable law, and shall report to the agency head.

(iii) Each Agency Equity Team shall support continued equity training and equity leadership development for staff across all levels of the agency's workforce.

(iv) Each agency's senior designee shall coordinate with the agency head, agency budget officials, and   (OMB) to ensure that   has sufficient resources, including staffing and data collection capacity, to advance the agency's equity goals. Agency heads shall ensure that their respective   serve in an advisory and coordination role on priority agency actions.

(b)

Establishment of  . There is hereby established a  ), which shall be chaired by the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. The   shall include senior officials representing policy councils and offices within   of the President, as appropriate. The   shall:

(i) coordinate Government-wide efforts to advance equity;

(ii) coordinate an   process to consult with agency heads on their respective agencies' Equity Action Plans, established in section 3(a) of this order;

(iii) coordinate with the leadership of   created by Executive Order   of   ( ,  , and Opportunity for    ,  , and  ); Executive Order   of   (  Initiative on  , and Economic Opportunity Through Historically Black Colleges and Universities); Executive Order 14045 of   (  Initiative on  , and Economic Opportunity for  ); Executive Order   (  Initiative on  , and Economic Opportunity for   and Strengthening Tribal Colleges and Universities); and Executive Order   of   (  Initiative on  , and Economic Opportunity for Black  );

(iv) coordinate with   to ensure that equity and environmental justice efforts are consistent and mutually reinforcing;

(v) coordinate with   to align efforts to advance gender equity with broader equity efforts; and

(vi) monitor agencies' activities and promote accountability to ensure that agencies undertake ambitious and measurable steps to deliver equitable outcomes for the   people.

 . 3

.

Delivering  , Programs, and Activities

. Each agency head shall support ongoing implementation of a comprehensive equity strategy that uses the agency's policy, budgetary, programmatic, service-delivery, procurement, data-collection processes, grantmaking, public engagement, research and evaluation, and regulatory functions to enable the agency's mission and service delivery to yield equitable outcomes for all  , including underserved communities.

(a) In  , and on an   basis thereafter, concurrent with the agencies' submission to OMB for the President's  , agency heads shall submit an Equity Action Plan to  . The Equity Action Plan shall include actions to advance equity, including under Executive Order  , Executive Order   (Preventing and Combating Discrimination on   or Sexual Orientation), Executive Order  , and Executive Order  .

(b) Each Equity Action Plan, which shall be made public, shall include:

(i) an update on the progress made by the agency on the actions, performance measures, and milestones highlighted in   Equity Action Plan, as well as the agency's performance on the annual   established pursuant to section 223 of Executive Order  , as applicable;

(ii) potential barriers that underserved communities may face in accessing and benefitting from the agency's policies, programs, and activities, including procurement, contracting, and grant opportunities;

(iii) strategies, including new or revised policies and programs, to address the barriers described in subsection (b)(ii) of this section and to ensure equitable access and opportunity for underserved communities; and

(iv) a description of how the agency intends to meaningfully engage with underserved communities, including through accessible, culturally and linguistically appropriate outreach, and the incorporation of the perspectives of those with lived experiences into agency policies, programs, and activities.

(c) Starting with formulation of the Fiscal Year 2025 Budget and for  , the Director of OMB shall consider how the President's   can support   described in subsection (a) of this section in order to reinforce agency efforts to meaningfully engage with and invest in underserved communities and advance equitable outcomes.

(d) To ensure effective implementation of  , and to strengthen   equitable delivery of resources and benefits to all, agency heads shall:

(i) prioritize and incorporate strategies to advance equity—including by pursuing evidence-based approaches, reducing administrative burdens, increasing access to technical assistance, and implementing equitable data practices, consistent with applicable law, into their respective:

(A) agency strategic plans developed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 306(a);

(B) agency performance plans developed pursuant to 31 U.S.C.   and  ;

(C) portions of performance plans relating to human and capital resource requirements to achieve performance goals pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1115(b)(5)(A);

(D) agency priority goals developed pursuant to 31 U.S.C.  ;

(E) evaluation and evidence-building activities pursuant to   of   (Public Law 115-435) and section 5 of   of   (  Government Through Scientific Integrity and Evidence-Based Policymaking);

(F) customer experience capacity assessments and action plans pursuant to section 280 of OMB Circular A-11 and Executive Order 14058 of   (Transforming Federal Customer Experience and Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in Government);

(G) selection of items for their respective regulatory agendas and plans pursuant to sections 4(b) and (c) of Executive Order   ( ), as amended;

(H) individual performance plans for senior executives consistent with 5 U.S.C.  , and for other senior employees consistent with 5 U.S.C.  ; and

(I) as permitted by law, activities, acquisitions, and strategies that the Director of OMB determines to be appropriate to further the implementation of this order;

(ii) identify opportunities, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to incorporate into new regulations and to modify their respective agencies' regulations, internal- and public-facing guidance, and other policies to include advancing equity as part of their respective agencies' missions; and

(iii) promote coordination within and among their respective agencies concerning the elements of their respective   Plans and the recommendations of   on   established in Executive Order  .

 . 4

.

 -wide Processes

.

(a) The Director of OMB shall consider opportunities to review and update internal processes, directives, and Government-wide guidance (such as OMB Circulars and Memoranda) to support equitable decision-making, promote equitable deployment of financial and technical assistance, and assist agencies in advancing equity, as appropriate and wherever possible.

(b) When designing, developing, acquiring, and using artificial intelligence and automated systems in  , agencies shall do so, consistent with applicable law, in a manner that advances equity.

 . 5

.

Delivering Equitable Outcomes in Partnership with Underserved Communities

. Underserved communities often face significant barriers and legacy exclusions in engaging with agencies and providing input on Federal policies and programs that affect them. Agencies must increase engagement with underserved communities by identifying and applying innovative approaches to improve the quality, frequency, and accessibility of engagement. Agencies shall, consistent with applicable law:

(a) conduct proactive engagement, as appropriate, with members of underserved communities—for example, through culturally and linguistically appropriate listening sessions, outreach events, or requests for information—during development and implementation of agencies' respective annual Equity Action Plans, annual budget submissions, grants and funding opportunities, and other actions, including those outlined in section 3(d) of this order;

(b) collaborate with OMB, as appropriate, to identify and develop tools and methods for engagement with underserved communities, including those related to agency budget development and rulemaking;

(c) create more flexibilities, incentives, and guidelines for recipients of   funding and permits to proactively engage with underserved communities as projects are designed and implemented;

(d) identify funding opportunities for community- and faith-based organizations working in and with underserved communities to improve access to benefits and services for members of underserved communities; and

(e) identify and address barriers for individuals with disabilities, as well as older adults, to participate in the engagement process, including barriers to the accessibility of physical spaces, virtual platforms, presentations, systems, training, and documents.

 . 6

.

Creating Economic Opportunity in Rural America and  

. (a) Agencies shall undertake efforts, to the extent consistent with applicable law, to help rural communities identify and access Federal resources in order to create equitable economic opportunity and advance projects that build community wealth, including by providing or supporting technical assistance; incentivizing the creation of good, high-paying union jobs in rural areas; conducting outreach to and soliciting input from rural community leaders; and contributing new resources and support to interagency programs such as  .

(b) Agencies shall undertake efforts, to the extent consistent with applicable law, to strengthen urban equitable development policies and practices, such as advancing community wealth building projects; preventing physical and economic displacement as the result of Federal investments; facilitating equitable flows of private capital, including to underserved communities; and incorporating outcome-based metrics focused on urban equitable development in the design and deployment of Federal programs and policies. To support these efforts, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall issue a policy memorandum on actions agencies can take to advance urban equitable development.

(c) Executive Order   of   (Targeting Opportunity Zones and Other Distressed Communities for Federal Site Locations), including the amendments it made to Executive Order 12072 of   ( ), and to Executive Order   of   (  in Our Nation's Central Cities), is revoked. Executive Orders   and   are reinstated as they were prior to issuance of Executive Order  . Executive Order   of   (Establishing  ), is also revoked. All agencies shall, consistent with applicable law, including the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551

et seq

.), consider taking prompt action to revoke any rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies implementing these Presidential actions that are inconsistent with the provisions of this order. Further, agencies shall ensure that planning for new Federal facilities or new leases includes consideration of neighborhoods and locations that are near existing employment centers and are accessible to a broad range of the region's workforce and population by public transit (where it exists), consistent with Executive Order  . Agencies shall identify displacement risks associated with Federal facility siting and development and shall engage with any community that may be affected, along with appropriate regional and local officials, to mitigate those displacement risks.

 . 7

.

Advancing Equitable Procurement

. (a) The Government-wide goal for Federal procurement dollars awarded to small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals (SDBs) shall be 15 percent in  . In furtherance of this goal, OMB shall set a Government-wide SDB goal for  .   shall, on an   basis, work with each agency to establish an agency-specific goal that, in aggregate, supports the Government-wide goal. Further, agencies shall undertake efforts to increase contracting opportunities for all other small business concerns as described in   (15 U.S.C. ch.  ).

(b) Agencies shall expand procurement opportunities for SDBs through Federal financial assistance, consistent with applicable law, under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act of  , and other Federal financial assistance programs.

 . 8

.

Affirmatively Advancing Civil Rights

. Agencies shall comprehensively use their respective civil rights authorities and offices to prevent and address discrimination and advance equity for all, including to increase the effects of civil rights enforcement and to increase public awareness of civil rights principles, consistent with applicable law. Agencies shall consider opportunities to:

(a) further elevate their respective civil rights offices, including by directing that their most senior civil rights officer report to the agency head;

(b) ensure that their respective civil rights offices are consulted on decisions regarding the design, development, acquisition, and use of artificial intelligence and automated systems;

(c) increase coordination, communication, and engagement with community-based organizations and civil rights organizations;

(d) increase the capacity, including staffing capacity, of their respective civil rights offices, in coordination with OMB;

(e) improve accessibility for people with disabilities and improve language access services to ensure that all communities can engage with agencies' respective civil rights offices, including by fully implementing Executive Order 13166 of   ( ); and

(f) prevent and remedy discrimination, including by protecting the public from algorithmic discrimination.

 . 9

.

Further Advancing  .   ( )     shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, coordinate the implementation of relevant recommendations of   on   established in Executive Order  . The Director of   shall provide a report on the  's progress to   every January and July.

 . 10

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) The term "equity" means the consistent and systematic treatment of all individuals in a fair, just, and impartial manner, including individuals who belong to communities that often have been denied such treatment, such as  , Indigenous and  ,  ,  , and Pacific Islander persons and other persons of color; members of religious minorities; women and girls; LGBTQI+ persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural areas; persons who live in  ; persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality; and individuals who belong to multiple such communities.

(b) The term "underserved communities" refers to those populations as well as geographic communities that have been systematically denied the opportunity to participate fully in aspects of economic, social, and civic life, as defined in Executive Orders   and  .

(c) The term "equitable development" refers to a positive development approach that employs processes, policies, and programs that aim to meet the needs of all communities and community members, with a particular focus on underserved communities and populations.

(d) The term "community wealth building" refers to an approach to economic development that strengthens the capacities of underserved communities by ensuring institutions and local economies have ownership models with greater community participation and control. This results in upgrading skills, growing entrepreneurs, increasing incomes, expanding net asset ownership, and fostering social well-being.

(e) The term "equitable data" refers to data that allow for rigorous assessment of the extent to which Government programs and policies yield consistently fair, just, and impartial treatment of all individuals.

(f) The term "algorithmic discrimination" refers to instances when automated systems contribute to unjustified different treatment or impacts disfavoring people based on their actual or perceived race, color, ethnicity, sex (including based on pregnancy, childbirth, and related conditions; gender identity; intersex status; and sexual orientation), religion, age, national origin, limited English proficiency, disability, veteran status, genetic information, or any other classification protected by law.

 . 11

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) Agencies not covered by section 2(a) of this order, including independent agencies, are strongly encouraged to comply with the provisions of this order.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
