Section 1

.

Policy

. This order promotes economy and efficiency in Federal procurement by ensuring that the parties that contract with   provide adequate   safeguards to their workers performing on or in connection with a   contract or contract-like instrument as described in section 5(a) of this order. These safeguards will decrease the spread of  , which will decrease worker absence, reduce labor costs, and improve the efficiency of contractors and subcontractors at sites where they are performing work for  . Accordingly, ensuring that Federal contractors and subcontractors are adequately protected from   will bolster economy and efficiency in Federal procurement.

 . 2

.

Providing for Adequate COVID-19 Safety Protocols for  

. (a) Executive departments and agencies, including independent establishments subject to  , 40 U.S.C. 102(4)(A) (agencies), shall, to the extent permitted by law, ensure that contracts and contract-like instruments (as described in section 5(a) of this order) include a clause that the contractor and any subcontractors (at any tier) shall incorporate into lower-tier subcontracts. This clause shall specify that the contractor or subcontractor shall, for the duration of the contract, comply with all guidance for contractor or subcontractor workplace locations published by   (Task Force Guidance or Guidance), provided that the Director of   (Director) approves   and determines that the  , if adhered to by contractors or subcontractors, will promote economy and efficiency in Federal contracting. This clause shall apply to any workplace locations (as specified by  ) in which an individual is working on or in connection with a   contract or contract-like instrument (as described in section 5(a) of this order).

(b) By  ,   (Task Force) shall, as part of its issuance of Task Force Guidance, provide definitions of relevant terms for contractors and subcontractors, explanations of protocols required of contractors and subcontractors to comply with workplace safety guidance, and any exceptions to Task Force Guidance that apply to contractor and subcontractor workplace locations and individuals in those locations working on or in connection with a   contract or contract-like instrument (as described in section 5(a) of this order).

(c) Prior to the Task Force publishing new   related to   for contractor or subcontractor workplace locations, including the   developed pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, the Director shall, as an exercise of the delegation of my authority under  ,

see

3 U.S.C. 301, determine whether such   will promote economy and efficiency in Federal contracting if adhered to by Government contractors and subcontractors. Upon an affirmative determination by the Director, the Director's approval of the  , and subsequent issuance of such   by  , contractors and subcontractors working on or in connection with a   contract or contract-like instrument (as described in section 5(a) of this order), shall adhere to the requirements of the newly published  , in accordance with the clause described in subsection (a) of this section. The Director shall publish such determination in the

Federal Register

.

(d) Nothing in this order shall excuse noncompliance with any applicable   law or municipal ordinance establishing more protective safety protocols than those established under this order or with any more protective Federal law, regulation, or agency instructions for contractor or subcontractor employees working at a Federal building or a federally controlled workplace.

(e) For purposes of this order, the term "contract or contract-like instrument" shall have the meaning set forth in   proposed rule, "Increasing the Minimum Wage for Federal Contractors, " 86  .  .  ,   ( ). If   issues a final rule relating to that proposed rule, that term shall have the meaning set forth in that final rule.

 . 3

.

Regulations and Implementation

. (a)  , to the extent permitted by law, shall amend   to provide for inclusion in Federal procurement solicitations and contracts subject to this order the clause described in section 2(a) of this order, and shall, by  , take initial steps to implement appropriate policy direction to acquisition offices for use of the clause by recommending that agencies exercise their authority under subpart 1.4 of  .

(b) By  , agencies shall take steps, to the extent permitted by law, to exercise any applicable authority to ensure that contracts and contract-like instruments as described in section 5(a) of this order that are not subject to   and that are entered into on or after  , consistent with the effective date of such agency action, include the clause described in section 2(a) of this order.

 . 4

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision of this order to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and its application to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.

 . 5

.

Applicability

. (a) This order shall apply to any new contract; new contract-like instrument; new solicitation for a contract or contract-like instrument; extension or renewal of an existing contract or contract-like instrument; and exercise of an option on an existing contract or contract-like instrument, if:

(i) it is a procurement contract or contract-like instrument for services, construction, or a leasehold interest in real property;

(ii) it is a contract or contract-like instrument for services covered by the Service Contract Act, 41 U.S.C.  

et seq

.;

(iii) it is a contract or contract-like instrument for concessions, including any concessions contract excluded by   regulations at 29 C.F.R. 4.133(b); or

(iv) it is a contract or contract-like instrument entered into with   in connection with Federal property or lands and related to offering services for Federal employees, their dependents, or the general public;

(b) This order shall not apply to:

(i) grants;

(ii) contracts, contract-like instruments, or agreements with   Tribes under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93-638), as amended;

(iii) contracts or subcontracts whose value is equal to or less than the simplified acquisition threshold, as that term is defined in section 2.101 of  ;

(iv) employees who perform work outside   or its outlying areas, as those terms are defined in section 2.101 of  ; or

(v) subcontracts solely for the provision of products.

 . 6

.

Effective Date

. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, this order is effective immediately and shall apply to new contracts; new contract-like instruments; new solicitations for contracts or contract-like instruments; extensions or renewals of existing contracts or contract-like instruments; and exercises of options on existing contracts or contract-like instruments, as described in section 5(a) of this order, where the relevant contract or contract-like instrument will be entered into, the relevant contract or contract-like instrument will be extended or renewed, or the relevant option will be exercised, on or after:

(i)  , consistent with the effective date for the action taken by   pursuant to section 3(a) of this order; or

(ii) for contracts and contract-like instruments that are not subject to   and where an agency action is taken pursuant to section 3(b) of this order,  , consistent with the effective date for such action.

(b) As an exception to subsection (a) of this section, where agencies have issued a solicitation before the effective date for the relevant action taken pursuant to section 3 of this order and entered into a new contract or contract-like instrument resulting from such solicitation within   of such effective date, such agencies are strongly encouraged to ensure that the safety protocols specified in section 2 of this order are applied in the new contract or contract-like instrument. But if that contract or contract-like instrument term is subsequently extended or renewed, or an option is subsequently exercised under that contract or contract-like instrument, the safety protocols specified in section 2 of this order shall apply to that extension, renewal, or option.

(c) For all existing contracts and contract-like instruments, solicitations issued between the date of this order and the effective dates set forth in this section, and contracts and contract-like instruments entered into between the date of this order and the effective dates set forth in this section, agencies are strongly encouraged, to the extent permitted by law, to ensure that the safety protocols required under those contracts and contract-like instruments are consistent with the requirements specified in section 2 of this order.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
