Section 1

. Each advisory committee listed below is continued or, to the extent necessary, reestablished until  .

(a) Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(b) President's Commission on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(c) President's Committee on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(d)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(e) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(f) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(g) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(h)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(i) Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive Order   ( ).

(j)   to   Representative to  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(k)   to   Representative to  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(l)  ; Executive Order  , as amended (Environmental Protection Agency).

(m)  /AIDS; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(n) President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(o)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(p)  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(q)  ; Executive  , as amended ( ).

(r) President's  , and  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(s) Interagency Task Force on  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(t) State, Local, Tribal, and Private Sector (SLTPS) Policy  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(u) President's   for  ; Executive   ( ).

(v) President's   in Africa; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(w)  ; initially established pursuant to   for   ( ) ( ).

(x)  ,  , and  ;   Directive-39, "U.S. National Space-Based Position,  , and Timing Policy" ( ) ( ).

(y) Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 6920 of  , as amended ( ).

(z)   Islands National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 8947 of   ( ).

(aa) Bears Ears National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 9558 of  , as amended ( ).

(bb)  ; Proclamation 9559 of   ( ).

(cc) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(dd)   Environmental Justice Advisory Council; Executive Order   ( ).

(ee) President's   on    ,  , and  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(ff) President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(gg)   on  , and Economic Opportunity for  ; Executive Order 14045 ( ).

 . 2

. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed

in section 1 of this order shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the regulations, guidelines, and procedures established by  .

 . 3

. Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order   of  , are hereby superseded by sections 1 and 2 of this order.

 . 4

. Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended in section 2(a) by striking "twelve" and inserting in lieu thereof "fourteen."

 . 5

. Executive Order   of  , as amended, is further amended as follows:

(a) by striking section 1, except subsection (c), and inserting before subsection (c) the following:

"

Section 1

.

Establishment

. (a) There is established the President's  , which shall be composed of no more than 30 members. These members shall have particular knowledge and expertise in the fields of cybersecurity and of information and communications technology ( ) and shall represent various elements of the  's telecommunications industry. Members of the   shall be appointed by the President.

(b) The President shall designate a   and Vice Chair from among the members of the  , each for a term of  ."

(b) by striking sections 2 and 3, and inserting in lieu thereof the following new sections 2 and 3:

"

Sec. 2

.

Functions

. (a) The   shall provide to the President, through the Secretary of  , information and advice from the perspective of relevant cybersecurity,  , and telecommunications industries on information assurance, cybersecurity, and the   ecosystem with respect to national security and emergency preparedness (NS/EP) concerns.

(b) The   shall provide information and advice to the President, through the Secretary of  , regarding the feasibility of implementing specific measures to improve the resiliency and security of the digital and communications infrastructure of  .

(c) The   shall provide technical information, advice, and recommendations as it relates to  /EP policy issues concerning cybersecurity,  , and telecommunications matters.

(d) The   shall periodically report on matters in this section to the President, through the Secretary of  .

 . 3

.

Administration

. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with information concerning  /EP policy issues specific to cybersecurity,  , and telecommunications matters in order for it to carry out its functions and mission. Information supplied to the   shall not, to the extent permitted by law, be available for public inspection.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . However, to the extent permitted by law, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence.

(c) Any expenses of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, be paid from funds available to the Secretary of  ."

(c) by striking section 4, except subsection (b) thereof, and inserting immediately preceding subsection (b) the following:

"

Sec. 4

.

General

. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accord with guidelines and procedures established by  ."

Sec. 6

. Executive   of  , as amended, is further amended in section 3(a) by striking "The President shall designate from among the members of   and a Vice Chair, who shall perform the functions of the   if the   is absent or disabled, or in the instance of a vacancy in the  " and inserting in lieu thereof "The President shall designate from among the members of   and a Vice Chair, who shall perform the functions of the   if the   is absent or disabled, or in the instance of a vacancy in the  , each for a term of  ."

Sec. 7

. Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended as follows:

(a) in section 2(a), by striking "develop a national strategy" and inserting in lieu thereof "continue to promulgate a national strategy ( )."

(b) in section 2, by striking the "and" at the end of subsection (a)(iii); striking the period at the end of subsection (a)(iv) and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon; and inserting the following new subsections:

"(v) expand national awareness of the importance of mental health as it pertains to physical fitness and nutrition; and

(vi) share information about the positive effects of physical activity on mental health, particularly as it relates to children and adolescents, to combat the negative mental health impacts of the coronavirus disease   (COVID-19) pandemic."

(c) in section 4, by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection:

"(d) The   members shall function as liaisons and spokespersons on behalf of the   to relevant State, local, and private entities, and share information about the work of the   in order to advise the Secretary regarding opportunities to extend and improve physical activity, fitness, sports, and nutrition programs and services at the  , local, and national levels."

 . 8

. This order shall be effective  .
