1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Shadow Wolves Enhancement Act
.
2.
Reclassification of Shadow Wolves as GS–1811 special agents
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is authorized—
(1)
to reclassify the GS–1801 tactical enforcement officers (commonly known as
Shadow Wolves
) assigned to the Homeland Security Investigations tactical patrol unit operating on the lands of the Tohono O'odham Nation, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, as GS–1811 special agents, upon the successful completion of—
(A)
the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center’s Criminal Investigator Training Program; and
(B)
(i)
Customs Basic Enforcement School, if the officer was hired before March 2003; or
(ii)
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Homeland Security Investigations Special Agent Training, if the officer was hired during or after March 2003;
(2)
to classify any Shadow Wolves who are assigned to the unit referred to in paragraph (1) after such date of enactment as special agents upon the successful completion of the training described in paragraph (1); and
(3)
to classify any Shadow Wolves who are hired as part of a comparable unit (regardless of location) after such date of enactment as special agents upon the successful completion of the training described in paragraph (1).
3.
Expansion of Shadow Wolves Program
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Comptroller General of the United States, the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
, and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
a strategy for—
(1)
retaining existing Shadow Wolves;
(2)
recruiting new Shadow Wolves;
(3)
expanding comparable units referred to in section 2(3) to appropriate areas near the international border between the United States and Canada or the international border between the United States and Mexico, with the approval and consent of the appropriate Indian tribe; and
(4)
determining the best process for expanding the reach of the Shadow Wolves Program to include historically and culturally significant areas for Tribal communities that are not located on Tribal lands.
4.
GAO study
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study to determine the best process for expanding the reach of the Shadow Wolves Program to include historically and culturally significant areas for tribal communities that are not located on tribal lands.
(b)
Report
Not later than 1 year after receiving the strategy under section 3, and annually for the following 2 years, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
—
(1)
an assessment of the effectiveness of such strategy; and
(2)
any recommendations for improvements to the strategy that the Comptroller General determines to be appropriate.
