1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding America's Pacific Diplomatic Presence Act of 2022
.
2.
Feasibility study regarding establishing new diplomatic posts in the Pacific Islands
(a)
Study required
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study assessing the feasibility of establishing new diplomatic posts in Pacific Islands countries and territories that currently do not have a United States embassy or other United States diplomatic post.
(b)
Briefing and report
The Comptroller General of the United States shall—
(1)
not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, brief the appropriate congressional committees on preliminary observations relating to the study conducted under subsection (a); and
(2)
not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the results of the study.
(c)
Elements
The report required under subsection (b) shall include the following elements:
(1)
An explanation of the methodologies and processes the Department of State uses when determining whether and where to establish new diplomatic posts abroad and the scale and size of such posts.
(2)
A description of the existing diplomatic posts the Department of State has in the Pacific Islands region and an analysis of how they advance United States national security priorities.
(3)
An assessment of what is known about the impact the opening of new diplomatic posts in the Pacific Islands region will have on—
(A)
United States relations with host nations;
(B)
United States relations with other allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region; and
(C)
the advancement of United States national security priorities.
(4)
An assessment of what is known about the feasibility of establishing new diplomatic posts in the Pacific Islands region.
(5)
An assessment of proposed locations for new diplomatic posts in the Pacific Islands region to expand the United States diplomatic presence in the region.
(6)
An assessment of alternatives to establishing new diplomatic posts that would expand the United States diplomatic presence in the Pacific Islands region.
(7)
A determination of the costs to the Department of constructing or acquiring new diplomatic posts in the Pacific Islands region, and an explanation and analysis of such costs.
(8)
A determination of the costs to the Department of expanding existing diplomatic posts in the Pacific Islands region as an alternative to constructing or acquiring new facilities, and an explanation and analysis of such costs.
(9)
A determination of the costs to the Department of staffing new diplomatic posts in the Pacific Islands region, including with regard to allowances, differentials, and other benefits to which Foreign Service officers assigned to such posts may be entitled and the salaries and benefits afforded to locally employed staff.
(10)
An assessment of personnel from agencies other than the Department of State, including the Department of Defense, who will be needed at new diplomatic posts in the Pacific Islands region.
(d)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Diplomatic post
The term
diplomatic post
means an embassy, consulate general, consulate, consular agency, or other overseas post of a United States mission.
(3)
Pacific Islands countries and territories that currently do not have a United States embassy or other United States diplomatic post
The term
Pacific Islands countries and territories that currently do not have a United States embassy or other United States diplomatic post
means Tonga, Kiribati, Nauru, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, the Solomon Islands, the Cook Islands, Niue, French Polynesia, and New Caledonia.
