1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Discharge Review Board Outreach Improvement Act of 2022
.
2.
Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Discharge Review Board Committee
(a)
Establishment of joint executive committee
(1)
In general
There is established an interagency committee to advise the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and the Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs on matters relating to the review boards under section 1553 of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Designation
The interagency committee established under paragraph (1) shall be known as the
Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Discharge Review Board Committee
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the
Committee
).
(b)
Membership
The Committee shall be composed of the following:
(1)
The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, the Assistant Secretary of Manpower and Reserve Affairs for each of the military services, and such other officers and employees of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense may designate.
(2)
The Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs and such other officers and employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may designate.
(c)
Administrative matters
(1)
In general
The Under Secretary and the Deputy Secretary shall jointly determine the size and structure of the Committee, as well as the administrative and procedural guidelines for the operation of the Committee.
(2)
Subcommittees
The Committee may establish subcommittees to assist the Committee in carrying out subsections (d) and (e), including the following:
(A)
A subcommittee on outreach and education.
(B)
A subcommittee on training for members of the review boards under section 1553 of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Support
The Under Secretary and the Deputy Secretary shall jointly supply appropriate staff and resources to provide administrative support and services for the Committee. Support for such purposes shall be provided at a level that the Under Secretary and the Deputy Secretary jointly determine sufficient for the efficient operation of the Committee, including any subcommittees established under paragraph (2).
(d)
Recommendations
(1)
In general
The Committee shall provide the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs with recommendations on the strategic direction for the joint coordination and sharing efforts between and within the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs on matters regarding the review boards described in subsection (a)(1).
(2)
Annual report
Not less frequently than once each year, the Committee shall submit to the two Secretaries and to Congress an annual report containing such recommendations regarding the review boards described in subsection (a)(1) as the Committee considers appropriate.
(e)
Functions
In order to enable the Committee to make recommendations in its annual report under subsection (c)(2), the Committee shall do the following:
(1)
Review existing policies, procedures, and practices regarding reviews under section 1553 of title 10, United States Code, with respect to matters that pertain to the coordination and sharing of resources between the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(2)
Identify changes in policies, procedures, and practices that, in the judgment of the Committee, would promote mutually beneficial coordination, use, or exchange of use of services and resources of the two Departments, with the goal of improving the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of the review boards under section 1553 of such title for veterans, members of the Armed Forces, individuals who retired from service in the Armed Forces, and their families through an enhanced partnership between the two Departments.
(3)
Identify and assess further opportunities for the coordination and collaboration between the Departments that, in the judgment of the Committee, would positively affect the review process under section 1553 of such title.
(4)
Review the implementation of activities designed to promote the coordination and sharing of resources between the Departments for matters relating to the review process under section 1553 of such title.
(5)
Identify and assess strategies, which either or both Departments may implement, that would increase outreach to former members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (d)(3)(B) of section 1553 of such title who may qualify for relief under such section.
