1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sea Turtle Rescue Assistance Act of 2022
.
2.
Sea Turtle Rescue Assistance Grant program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish a grant program to be known as the
Sea Turtle Rescue Assistance Grant Program
, to encourage and facilitate coordinated rapid response and rescue by awarding grants for the purposes described in subsection (c).
(b)
Designation of stranding regions
The Secretary shall designate geographic regions of the United States as stranding regions for the purposes of carrying out this section.
(c)
Purposes
The purposes of the Program are to provide for—
(1)
the recovery, short- or long-term care, transportation, and treatment of stranded marine turtles;
(2)
the release of rescued and recovered marine turtles;
(3)
the collection of data and samples from stranded marine turtles for scientific research or assessments regarding marine turtle health, including tagging information; and
(4)
facility operation costs that are directly related to activities described in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3).
(d)
Equitable distribution of funds
The Secretary shall ensure, to the extent practicable, that funds awarded under this section are distributed equitably among stranding regions, taking into account—
(1)
the number of stranding events that occurred in each stranding region in the preceding 5 years;
(2)
region-specific factors that increase risks of marine turtle stranding events; and
(3)
the conservation priorities and recovery needs of species of marine turtles that are threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.
).
(e)
Application
An applicant for a grant under this section shall submit an application in such form and manner as the Secretary shall prescribe.
(f)
Grant criteria
(1)
Development of criteria
The Secretary shall, in consultation with the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, develop criteria for awarding grants under this section and provide such criteria for formal public notice and comment.
(2)
Stakeholder engagement
As part of the process for developing and finalizing criteria under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, in consultation with the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, provide opportunities for engagement with representatives from stranding regions and representatives of public and private organizations with an established record in rescue, rehabilitation, and release, as well as related scientific research, marine conservation, and forensic science, with respect to stranded marine turtles.
(3)
Required criteria
The criteria developed under paragraph (1) shall prioritize applicants with an established record of rescuing, rehabilitation, scientific research, and forensic science with respect to stranded marine turtles or conducting scientific research and forensic science on stranded marine turtles.
(g)
Acceptance of donations
For the purposes of carrying out this section, the Secretary may solicit, accept, receive, hold, administer, and use gifts, devises, and bequests without any further approval or administrative action.
(h)
Liability waiver
(1)
In general
A person who is acting under the authority of an entity awarded a grant under this section is deemed to be an employee of the government for purposes of
chapter 171
of title 28, United States Code, with respect to actions of the person that—
(A)
are in support of rescue efforts;
(B)
are in accordance with the purposes of subsection (c); and
(C)
reflect sound professional judgment and are consistent with the directions of any on-site coordinator or incident commander.
(2)
Limitation
Paragraph (1) does not apply to actions of a person described in that paragraph that are grossly negligent or that constitute willful misconduct.
(i)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2028 to remain available until expended.
(j)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Marine turtle
The term
marine turtle
means any member of the family Cheloniidae or Dermochelyidae.
(2)
Program
The term
Program
means the Sea Turtle Rescue Assistance Grant Program established under subsection (a).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce.
(4)
Stranding
The term
stranding
means an event in which—
(A)
a marine turtle is dead and is—
(i)
on a beach or shore of the United States; or
(ii)
in waters under the jurisdiction of the United States (including any navigable waters); or
(B)
a marine turtle is alive and is—
(i)
on a beach or shore of the United States and unable to return to the water;
(ii)
on a beach or shore of the United States and in need of medical attention; or
(iii)
in the waters under the jurisdiction of the United States (including any navigable waters), and in need of medical attention or other necessary intervention to aid its likelihood of survival.
(5)
Stranding region
The term
stranding region
means a geographic region designated by the Secretary under subsection (b).
