1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Saving America's Future by Educating Kids Act of 2022
.
2.
Evidence-based curriculum on substance use disorders
(a)
In general
(1)
Development and dissemination of curriculum
The Secretary of Education, in consultation with the partners described in paragraph (2), shall develop and disseminate an evidence-based curriculum for kindergarten through grade 12 on educating students at an age-appropriate level on the dangers and harmful impacts of substances that—
(A)
focuses on opioid and other substances misuse and abuse; and
(B)
includes vaping, e-cigarettes, tobacco, and other substances.
(2)
Partners
The partners described in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
The Assistant Secretary of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
(B)
The Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
(C)
The Assistant Secretary of the Administration for Children and Families.
(D)
The Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
(E)
The Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse or a designee of the Director from the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
(F)
The Director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism or a designee of the Director from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.
(G)
The Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention of the Department of Justice or a designee of the Administrator from the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
(3)
Review and update
The Secretary of Education, in consultation with the partners described in paragraph (2), shall review and update the evidence-based curriculum developed under paragraph (1) every 2 years.
(b)
Competitive grant program
(1)
In general
Beginning the first fiscal year following the completion of the development of the evidence-based curriculum under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary of Education shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to State educational agencies to enable the State educational agencies to implement the evidence-based curriculum. The Secretary of Education shall award not less than 10 grants during each grant cycle.
(2)
Application
A State educational agency that desires to receive a grant under this subsection shall submit an application to the Secretary of Education at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require.
(3)
Preference
In awarding grants under this subsection, the Secretary of Education shall give preference to States that have experienced the highest drug overdose death rate per capita.
(4)
Subcontract
A State educational agency that receives a grant under this subsection may subcontract with community coalitions, that are or have been a recipient of a grant under section 1032 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (
21 U.S.C. 1532
), to implement the evidence-based curriculum, as needed.
(5)
Annual report
Each State educational agency that receives a grant under this subsection shall provide an annual report to the Secretary of Education on measures set by the Secretary to monitor the quality of implementation of the evidence-based curriculum.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Evidence-based
The term
evidence-based
has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(2)
State educational agency
The term
State educational agency
has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(d)
Funding
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for the period of fiscal years 2022 through 2031.
