1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Tribal Medical Supplies Stockpile Access Act of 2022
.
2.
Provision of items to Indian programs and facilities
(a)
Strategic national stockpile
Section 319F–2(a)(3)(G) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(a)(3)(G)) is amended by inserting
, and, in the case that the Secretary deploys the stockpile under this subparagraph, ensure, in coordination with the applicable States and programs and facilities, that appropriate drugs, vaccines and other biological products, medical devices, and other supplies are deployed by the Secretary directly to health programs or facilities operated by the Indian Health Service, an Indian Tribe, a Tribal organization (as those terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act), or an inter-Tribal consortium (as defined in section 501 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act) or through an urban Indian organization (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act), while avoiding duplicative distributions to such programs or facilities
before the semicolon.
(b)
Distribution of qualified pandemic or epidemic products to IHS facilities
Title III of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after section 319F–4 the following:
319F–5.
Distribution of qualified pandemic or epidemic products to Indian programs and facilities
In the case that the Secretary distributes qualified pandemic or epidemic products (as defined in section 319F–3(i)(7)) to States or other entities, the Secretary shall ensure, in coordination with the applicable States and programs and facilities, that, as appropriate, such products are distributed directly to health programs or facilities operated by the Indian Health Service, an Indian Tribe, a Tribal organization (as those terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act), or an inter-Tribal consortium (as defined in section 501 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act) or through an urban Indian organization (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act), while avoiding duplicative distributions to such programs or facilities.
.
