1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Methane Monitoring Science Act of 2024
.
2.
Federal methane emissions detection strategy
(a)
Strategy
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), in consultation with the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall enter into an agreement with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (in this section referred to as the
National Academies
) to develop a science-based strategy to assess, evaluate, and make recommendations regarding the use of present and future methane monitoring and detection capabilities, including ground-based, airborne, and space-based sensors and integration of data relating to such monitoring and detection from other indicators, with a focus on the ability to detect both methane emissions and large methane emission events (commonly referred to as
methane emissions
).
(2)
Requirements
The strategy described in paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
(A)
Examination of whether and how current and planned Federal methane monitoring and detection capabilities may be leveraged to monitor and detect methane emissions, and identify key gaps in such capabilities.
(B)
Consideration of a means to facilitate effective interagency collaboration for methane monitoring and detection, data quality standards, stewardship, and data integration, to monitor and detect methane emissions.
(C)
Consideration regarding how agencies that conduct methane monitoring and detection can enhance the scientific and operational value and enable the broader application of information regarding methane emissions, including by operationalizing methane emissions data to support the rapid mitigation of methane leaks and integrating such data from multiple sources.
(D)
Consideration of options for the Federal Government to partner with nongovernmental entities, including State and local governments, academia, non-profit organizations, commercial industry, and international organizations, to effectively leverage present and future methane monitoring and detection capabilities.
(E)
Plan for the rapid adoption of advanced measurement technologies and methodologies into current and future Federal and State regulations for the purpose of compliance.
(F)
Examination of the effectiveness of the U.S. Greenhouse Gas Center and Greenhouse Gas Monitoring and Measurement Interagency Working Group in facilitating interagency collaboration for greenhouse gas monitoring and detection, data standards, stewardship, and data integration, including activities related to monitoring and detecting methane emissions.
(G)
Examination of actions taken by Federal agencies and departments in response to the National Strategy to Advance an Integrated U.S. Greenhouse Gas Measurement, Monitoring, and Information System, including progress towards pathways to enhance the scientific and operational value of information regarding methane emissions.
(H)
Recommendations regarding the activities under subparagraphs (A) through (G), as appropriate.
(b)
Use of strategy
The Administrator of NASA may use the strategy described in subsection (a) to inform the planning of research and development activities regarding methane monitoring and detection and the monitoring and detection of methane emissions.
(c)
Engagement
The agreement with the National Academies under subsection (a) shall require the National Academies to hold workshops or events to regularly engage openly with stakeholders, agencies, and Congress in the intermediary during the preparation of the strategy under such subsection.
(d)
Report
Not later than 24 months after the date of the execution of the agreement between the Administrator of NASA and the National Academies under subsection (a), the National Academies shall submit to the Administrator of NASA, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the strategy described in such subsection. Such report shall also contain a consideration relating to regional distinctions regarding how methane can be monitored and detected most effectively.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator of NASA $1,800,000 to carry out this section.
(f)
Definition
In this section, the term
methane monitoring and detection
means the direct observation, from space or in-situ, and measured emissions data from source- and site-level technologies such as continuous or periodic monitoring, or collection of measurement data pertaining to, methane emissions and levels.
