1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ensuring Veterans’ Smooth Transition Act
or the
EVEST Act
.
2.
Automatic enrollment of eligible veterans in patient enrollment system of Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
In general
Section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
(1)
The Secretary shall enroll each veteran described in subsection (a) in the patient enrollment system under this section by not later than 60 days after receiving the information described in paragraph (3) with respect to the veteran.
(2)(A)
Not later than 60 days after enrolling a veteran under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide to the veteran—
(i)
notice of the veteran’s enrollment;
(ii)
instructions for how the veteran may opt out of such enrollment, at the election of the veteran; and
(iii)
instructions for how the veteran may elect to enroll at a later date.
(B)
In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consider using, to the extent practical, mass texting capabilities through mobile telephones.
(C)
Any notice or instructions required to be provided under this paragraph shall be provided in the form of a physical copy delivered by mail and, to the extent practical, in the form of an electronic copy delivered by electronic mail.
(3)
The information described in this paragraph is the appropriate information concerning eligibility for enrollment in the patient enrollment system under this section, as provided by the Defense Manpower Data Center of the Department of Defense, or such successor entity of the Department.
.
(b)
Applicability
Subsection (d) of section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply to a veteran who is discharged or separated from the Armed Forces on or after the date that is 90 days before the date of the enactment of this Act and with respect to whom the Secretary receives the information described in paragraph (3) of such subsection on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Electronic certificates of eligibility for Department of Veterans Affairs patient enrollment system
Not later than August 1, 2024, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that any veteran who is eligible for automatic enrollment in the patient enrollment system under subsection (d) of section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), is able to access—
(1)
an electronic version of the certificate of eligibility showing the veteran’s eligibility for such enrollment; and
(2)
an electronic mechanism by which the veteran may opt out of such enrollment.
(d)
Provision of notice and information
The notice and instructions required to be provided under subsection (d)(2) of section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall be provided in accordance with the established procedures of the Department of Veterans Affairs with respect to the provision of similar types of notices and instructions.
(e)
Report on automatic enrollment
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the first veteran is enrolled in the patient enrollment system of the Department of Veterans Affairs under subsection (d) of section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the enrollment process under such subsection. Such report shall include each of the following:
(A)
A discussion of any anticipated challenges that occurred in implementing such subsection, the strategies used to address such challenges, and the effectiveness of such strategies.
(B)
A discussion of any unanticipated challenges that occurred in implementing such subsection, the strategies used to address such challenges, and the effectiveness of such strategies.
(C)
Any additional information the Secretary determines appropriate, including information that may be useful to other Federal departments and agencies considering the implementation of similar automatic enrollment programs.
(2)
Form of report
The report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
3.
GAO report on notice of automatic enrollment in patient enrollment system of Department of Veterans Affairs
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of a study to determine the best methods for the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide notice under paragraph (2) of subsection (d) of section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, as added by section 2. In making such determination, the Comptroller General shall consider needs of veterans based on—
(1)
age;
(2)
residence in urban areas; and
(3)
residence in rural areas.
