1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Military Bases from Connected Vehicles of Concern Act of 2024
.
2.
Prohibition on operation of connected vehicles designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign entity of concern on Department of Defense property
(a)
In general
No connected vehicle on the list required under subsection (b) may be operated on a military installation or on any other property of the Department of Defense.
(b)
List required
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a list of prohibited connected vehicles that—
(A)
are designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign entity of concern; and
(B)
pose an undue or unacceptable risk to national security, as determined by the Secretary.
(2)
Annual review
The Secretary shall review the list required under paragraph (1) not less frequently than once each year and shall make such additions, subtractions, supplements, or amendments to the list as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
connected vehicle
—
(A)
means an automotive vehicle that integrates onboard networked hardware with automotive software systems to communicate via dedicated short-range communication, cellular telecommunications connectivity, satellite communication, or other wireless spectrum connectivity with any other network or device; and
(B)
includes automotive vehicles, whether personal or commercial, capable of—
(i)
global navigation satellite system communication for geolocation;
(ii)
communication with intelligent transportation systems;
(iii)
remote access or control;
(iv)
wireless software or firmware updates; or
(v)
on-device roadside assistance.
(2)
The term
covered undue or unacceptable risk
means—
(A)
an undue risk of sabotage to or subversion of the design, integrity, manufacturing, production, distribution, installation, operation, or maintenance of information and communications technology and services in the United States;
(B)
an undue risk of catastrophic effects on the security or resiliency of United States critical infrastructure or the digital economy of the United States; or
(C)
an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States or the security and safety of United States persons.
(3)
The term
foreign entity of concern
has the meaning given such term in section 9901 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (
Public Law 116–283
;
15 U.S.C. 4651
).
(4)
The term
military installation
has the meaning given such term in section 2801(4) of title 10, United States Code.
