1.
Study on potential relationship between increased health risks and living in proximity to coal mines
(a)
In general
The Deputy Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation Enforcement of the Department of the Interior shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to carry out, in accordance with subsection (c), a study to examine the potential relationship between increased health risks and living in proximity to sites that have been or are being mined for surface coal deposits, and the potential human health effects of surface coal mining operations in Central Appalachia, including the effects of unreclaimed, idle, and abandoned coal mines.
(b)
Elements
The study under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An identification and description of the main types of coal deposits in Central Appalachia that are extracted using surface mining techniques, including geologic and geochemical characteristics, mining and reclamation operations, and waste management approaches.
(2)
A summary of Federal and State regulatory frameworks for surface coal mining operations, including coal preparation plants and the associated coarse coal refuse facilities and slurry impoundments.
(3)
A discussion of relevant scientific research on the potential human health effects related to surface coal mining operations, including the following:
(A)
An identification of effects from surface coal mining operations on air, surface water, groundwater, and drinking water quality that could potentially lead to human health concerns.
(B)
An evaluation of the potential for short-term and long-term human health effects, including consideration of potential exposure pathways and relevant environmental contaminants, noise and vibrations from operations, and other stressors and quality of life concerns.
(C)
An assessment of the scientific and methodologic quality, rigor, and sufficiency of such scientific research.
(4)
An identification of baseline data and approaches necessary to monitor environmental and human health indicators that may be affected by surface coal mining operations.
(5)
An identification of gaps in research and needs for additional research that may assist in the development of new approaches to safeguard the health of residents living near surface coal mining operations.
(6)
Recommendations for—
(A)
additional research needed to understand the impact of surface coal mine operations on human health; and
(B)
development of new approaches to safeguard the health of residents living near surface coal mining operations.
(7)
An identification of the effects of unreclaimed, idle, and abandoned coal mines.
(8)
Recommendations to remedy any negative health effects found from the study.
(c)
Committee
The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall establish a committee to carry out the study under subsection (a). Members of such committee shall have relevant expertise from academia, State government agencies, industry, and nongovernmental organizations, and shall have individual expertise in technical areas such as mining engineering (including coal mining operations), exposure science, monitoring and control of environmental and human exposure to products from surface coal mine operations, epidemiology, public health, environmental medicine, statistics, regulatory decision making for surface mining, and control and reclamation operations.
(d)
Input
In carrying out the study under subsection (a), the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall solicit input from impacted members of the general public.
(e)
Report
Not later than 24 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall issue a report containing the findings of the study under subsection (a), including any recommendations on remediations of potential human health effects of surface coal mining operations in Central Appalachia, including the effects of unreclaimed, idle, and abandoned coal mines.
