1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act of 2024
.
2.
Grants for training and support services for families and unpaid caregivers of people living with Alzheimer’s disease or a related dementia
The Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3001–3058ff
) is amended by inserting after section 432 the following:
433.
Grants for training and support services for families and unpaid caregivers of people living with Alzheimer’s disease or a related dementia
(a)
Grants
The Secretary may award grants to public or nonprofit private home and community-based service providers described in subsection (b) for the purpose of expanding training and support services for families and unpaid caregivers of people living with Alzheimer’s disease or a related dementia if such home and community-based service providers—
(1)
meet the conditions for receiving grants under subsection (c); and
(2)
submit an application to the Secretary in such form, in such manner, and containing such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
(b)
Recipients of grants
The public or nonprofit private home and community-based service providers eligible for grants under this section include—
(1)
health care organizations;
(2)
community health centers;
(3)
senior centers;
(4)
area agencies on aging;
(5)
community-based organizations;
(6)
organizations providing support services for families and unpaid caregivers of people living with younger-onset Alzheimer’s disease or a related dementia, including people living with Down syndrome or another disability;
(7)
State, local, and Tribal public health agencies and social service agencies; and
(8)
other public or nonprofit private home and community-based service providers as determined by the Secretary.
(c)
Conditions for receiving grants
To be eligible to receive a grant awarded under subsection (a), a public or nonprofit private home or community-based service provider described in subsection (b) shall agree in any program to be funded by a grant awarded under subsection (a)—
(1)
to provide culturally and linguistically appropriate services;
(2)
to spend at least 50 percent of the grant funding on direct services to families and unpaid caregivers of people living with Alzheimer’s disease or a related dementia, while also providing outreach activities to the extent necessary to inform the public of the services of the program; and
(3)
to limit administrative expenses and other indirect costs to no more than 10 percent of the grant funding.
(d)
Consultation
The Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of the Administration for Community Living, the Director of the Office on Women’s Health and the Director of the Office of Minority Health in order to ensure that women, minorities, people living with disabilities, and people who live in underserved communities are able to benefit from the training and support services funded through grants awarded under subsection (a).
(e)
Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to nonprofit private home and community-based service providers that are geographically based in and primarily serve underserved communities.
(f)
Outreach
The Secretary shall conduct outreach in low-income communities, minority communities, and underserved communities (including the disability community) in order to inform eligible public and nonprofit private home and community-based service providers, including nonprofit private home and community-based service providers eligible for priority under subsection (e), of the possibility of applying for and securing grants under subsection (a).
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be appropriate for each of the fiscal years 2025 through 2029.
.
