1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Farm to Fuselage Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
Sustainable aviation fuels have the capacity to increase domestic energy security, support the agriculture sector, and foster the farm economy by accelerating the availability of a commercially viable and sustainable aviation biofuel industry in the United States.
(2)
Sustainable aviation fuels provide a critical opportunity to support America’s farmers and the rest of the agricultural sector in its partnership with the aviation sector to support rural economic development.
(3)
Sustainable aviation fuels will expand domestic energy capacity and create new markets for America’s farmers while providing a new energy resource for the aviation sector.
3.
Updating the Biomass Research and Development Board
The Secretary of Agriculture shall determine whether the Biomass Research and Development Board established by section 9008 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 has the requisite expertise to evaluate research proposals and coordinate development activities relating to sustainable aviation fuels and, based on the determination, make such changes to the composition of the board and board procedure as the Secretary deems necessary under the authority provided by such section.
4.
Supporting sustainable aviation fuel biorefineries
Section 9003(c) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (
7 U.S.C. 8103(c)
) is amended to read as follows:
(c)
Assistance
The Secretary shall make available to eligible entities—
(1)
grants to assist in paying the costs of the development and construction of demonstration-scale biorefineries to demonstrate the commercial viability of 1 or more processes for converting renewable biomass to advanced biofuels; and
(2)
guarantees for loans made to fund the development, construction, and retrofitting of commercial-scale biorefineries using eligible technology.
.
5.
Awarding sustainable aviation fuel as an advanced biofuel
Section 9005 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (
7 U.S.C. 8105
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(h)
Innovation
(1)
Premiums
Notwithstanding subsection (e), the Secretary shall make additional payments as premiums to payments under subsection (b) for the purpose of encouraging the production of innovative advanced biofuels.
(2)
Limitation
The amount of any additional payment under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not exceed 25 percent of the amount of the initial payment under subsection (b).
(3)
Innovative advanced biofuels
In paragraph (1), the term
innovative advanced biofuels
—
(A)
means advanced biofuels with respect to which the Secretary determines—
(i)
there is increasing market demand; and
(ii)
a minority of payments under this section have been made; and
(B)
includes advanced biofuels used for aviation and other advanced biofuels determined by the Secretary.
.
6.
Modification of Biodiesel Fuel Education Program
Section 9006(a) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (
7 U.S.C. 8106(a)
) is amended by inserting
including aviation fleets,
after
fleets,
.
7.
Modification of the Biomass Crop Assistance Program
Section 9011(a)(4)(B)(i) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (
7 U.S.C. 8111(a)(4)(B)(i)
) is amended by inserting
, other than a biofuel crop,
before
that is eligible
.
8.
Establishing biofuel crop designation
Section 508A(a) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (
7 U.S.C. 1508a(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
or biofuel crop
after
replanted crop
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(4)
Biofuel crop
The term
biofuel crop
means camelina, carinata, pennycress, and any other crop used in the production of advanced biofuels as designated by the Secretary.
.
9.
Report to Congress
Within 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Risk Management Agency, shall submit to the Congress a written report on how approval for farmers to insure secondary crops with revenue streams resulting from biofuel use can be streamlined, with particular reference to carinata, pennycress, camelina, and other oilseeds.
10.
Effective date
This Act and the amendment made by this Act shall take effect 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
