1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transparency and Predictability in Small Business Opportunities Act
.
2.
Small Business Administration rules for cancelled covered solicitations
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall issue rules to carry out the following actions:
(1)
Disclose information about a covered solicitation that was issued and cancelled that includes the following:
(A)
A justification for the cancellation of such covered solicitation.
(B)
Available information about any plans to reissue such covered solicitation and any associated timeframes for such reissuance.
(C)
Available information about any plans to include the requirements such covered solicitation in another contract or task order of the Federal agency.
(2)
With respect to a cancelled covered solicitation which the Federal agency does not intend to reissue, procedures for the referral of a small business concern that prepared a bid for such covered solicitation to the Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (as defined in section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(k)
)) of the Federal agency for assistance in identifying similar contracting opportunities.
(b)
Publication
The information required under subsection (a) shall be made publicly accessible on the single governmentwide point of entry described under section 1708 of title 41, United States Code.
(c)
Covered solicitation defined
The term
covered solicitation
means a solicitation of a Federal agency for a procurement for which two or more small business concerns were eligible to submit a bid.
3.
Duties for Directors of Offices of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization relating to certain cancelled solicitations
Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(k)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (21), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(22)
shall, when notified by a small business concern that a Federal agency cancelled a solicitation for which such concern prepared a bid and such Federal agency does not intend to reissue, assist such concern with identifying similar contracting opportunities.
.
4.
Compliance with CUTGO
No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act or the amendments made by this Act.
