1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Mentorship in STEM Higher Education Act
.
2.
Mentorship demonstration program; National Science Foundation reporting
(a)
Demonstration program
Section 10313(a) of the Research and Development, Competition, and Innovation Act (
42 U.S.C. 18993
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(6)
Demonstration program
(A)
In general
The Director may make awards, including through existing programs, on a competitive basis to eligible entities to carry out projects designed to improve mentorship practices and provide resources for faculty, graduate researchers, and postdoctoral researchers at the eligible entity, including with respect to—
(i)
building and developing mentoring skills in such researchers and faculty;
(ii)
promoting evidence-based and institutionalized mentorship at the eligible entity;
(iii)
researching methodologies for improving mentorship;
(iv)
training such researchers and faculty in cultural competencies; and
(v)
funding outreach related to such projects.
(B)
Application
An eligible entity desiring an award under this subsection shall submit to the Director an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Director may require.
(C)
Special consideration
In making awards under this subsection, the Director shall give special consideration to eligible entities that are—
(i)
minority-serving institutions;
(ii)
historically Black colleges and universities;
(iii)
Tribal Colleges or Universities;
(iv)
rural-serving institutions of higher education (as such term is defined in section 861(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1161q(b)
));
(v)
emerging research institutions; and
(vi)
consortia that include institutions described in clauses (i) through (v).
(D)
Report
Not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Director shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report that includes—
(i)
an assessment, using qualitative or quantitative metrics as determined by the Director, of the effectiveness of the demonstration program carried out under this paragraph on increasing the quality of mentorship in STEM education; and
(ii)
if such assessment determines that such program is effective, a plan to sustain and permanently implement such program.
(E)
Eligible entity defined
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
eligible entity
means—
(i)
an institution of higher education (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
));
(ii)
a nonprofit organization; and
(iii)
a consortium of entities described in clauses (i) and (ii).
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this paragraph $5,000,000, for fiscal years 2025 through 2029.
.
(b)
Misconduct reporting requirements
Section 7009 of the America COMPETES Act (
42 U.S.C. 1862o–1
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
(2)
institutional and agency reporting processes with respect to harassment, discrimination, and other forms of professional or scientific misconduct;
.
