1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Divided Families National Registry Act
.
2.
National registry of Korean American divided families
(a)
In general
The Secretary of State, acting through the Special Envoy on North Korean Human Rights Issues or such other individual as the Secretary may designate, shall—
(1)
identify Korean American families who wish to be reunited with family members in North Korea from which such Korean American families were divided after the signing of the Agreement Concerning a Military Armistice in Korea, signed at Panmunjom July 27, 1953 (commonly referred to as the
Korean War Armistice Agreement
), in anticipation of future reunions for such families and family members, including in-person and video reunions; and
(2)
establish a national registry of the names and other relevant information of such Korean American families—
(A)
to facilitate such future reunions; and
(B)
to provide for a repository of information about such Korean American families and family members in North Korea, including information about individuals who may be deceased.
(b)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of State $1,000,000 to carry out this section.
3.
Actions to facilitate dialogue between the United States and North Korea
(a)
In general
The Secretary of State shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that any direct dialogue between the United States and North Korea includes progress towards holding future reunions for Korean American families and their family members in North Korea as described in section 2.
(b)
Consultations
The Secretary of State shall consult with the Government of the Republic of Korea in carrying out this section.
(c)
Report
No later than one year after enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on—
(1)
the status of the national registry established pursuant to section 2(a)(2);
(2)
the number of individuals included on the registry who—
(A)
have met their family members in North Korea during previous reunions; and
(B)
have yet to meet their family members in North Korea during previous reunions;
(3)
a summary of responses by North Korea to requests to hold reunions of divided families; and
(4)
a description of regulations in North Korea and actions taken by North Korea in the year previous to submission of each report that prevent the emigration of family members of Korean American families.
(d)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this Act,
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
