1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Allyship Act
.
2.
Comprehensive policy and strategy
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall issue a comprehensive policy and strategy with respect to Iran that includes the manner in which the United States will achieve the following:
(1)
Counter threats posed to regional and global security posed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.
(2)
Support the human rights and humanitarian needs of the people of Iran.
(3)
Increase the ability of Iranians to access free and open information, particularly through the internet.
(4)
Employ frozen Iranian assets for the benefit of the people of Iran.
3.
Comptroller general evaluation of strategy
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report assessing the impact of United States efforts to achieve the goals described in section 2. Such report shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
4.
Imposition of targeted sanctions
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the President shall determine whether any of the following persons meet the criteria for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to section 105 of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (
22 U.S.C. 8514
):
(1)
Any Iranian person who had a role in establishing or implementing the legal framework responsible for the detention, prosecution, harassment, injury, or murder of peaceful participants in Iranian protests beginning September 16, 2022.
(2)
Any Iranian person who had a role in establishing or implementing the systems responsible for—
(A)
denying Iranians access to free information;
(B)
actively promoting misinformation or disinformation; or
(C)
engagement in cybercrime.
5.
Material support for the people of Iran
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Treasury shall, subject to subsection (c), establish a mechanism to facilitate the ability of United States persons to transfer up to $6,000 per year to any citizen of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as well as promoting the availability of technology to help Iranians circumvent restrictions on free and open communication.
(b)
Eligible technology
Technologies eligible for promotion under the authority provided by subsection (a) may include virtual private networks, Bluetooth, satellite technology, and shortwave radio.
(c)
Preventing material support for criminal actions
The Secretary shall ensure that the mechanism described in subsection (a) shall not directly benefit any citizen of the Islamic Republic of Iran who the Secretary determines is—
(1)
guilty of a gross violation of human rights;
(2)
subject to sanctions imposed pursuant to the authority provided by the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act (
22 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.
);
(3)
currently included in the List of Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets control of the Department of the Treasury; or
(4)
an employee of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, or of any security force of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
6.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029 $50,000,000, for programs, projects, and activities consistent with the goals described in section 2. Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization under this section are authorized to remain available for a period of 2 fiscal years.
7.
Parole for victims of political persecution
(a)
Process required
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish a process for determining eligibility for humanitarian parole subject to 212(d)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)
) for any eligible individual as defined in subsection (b). The Secretary shall not impose a fee for any such request.
(b)
Eligible individuals
For the purposes of this section, an eligible individual is any of the following:
(1)
An individual that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines was unjustly imprisoned by the Islamic Republic of Iran.
(2)
A child or spouse of an individual that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines was unjustly imprisoned by the Islamic Republic of Iran.
(3)
A child or spouse of an individual that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines was killed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.
8.
Senior advisor for political prisoners in Iran
(a)
Establishment
The President, acting in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall designate an individual to serve as Senior Advisor for Political Prisoners in Iran.
(b)
Duties
The Senior Advisor for Political Prisoners in Iran shall—
(1)
advise the Secretary of State, the relevant heads of other Federal departments and independent agencies, and other entities within the Executive Office of the President, regarding the establishment of—
(A)
policies, goals, objectives, and priorities for supporting individuals unjustly imprisoned by the Islamic Republic of Iran, and their family members; and
(B)
mechanisms to improve the effectiveness, coordination, impact, and outcomes of programs relating to individuals unjustly imprisoned by the Islamic Republic of Iran, and their family members; and
(2)
identify and assist in the resolution of any disputes that arise between Federal agencies relating to policies and programs to support individuals unjustly imprisoned by the Islamic Republic of Iran, and their family members.
