1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Family Reunification Task Force Act
.
2.
Task force on the reunification of families
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Attorney General, shall establish in the Department of Homeland Security a task force on the reunification of families, to be known as the
Task Force on the Reunification of Families
(in this section referred to as the
Task Force
).
(b)
Activities
The Task Force shall carry out the following:
(1)
Identify all covered children.
(2)
Provide recommendations to the Secretary of Homeland Security concerning the following:
(A)
The legal authorities necessary to reunite such covered children with their parents or legal guardians.
(B)
The exercise of parole under section 212(d)(5)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)(A)
) to reunite such covered children with their parents or legal guardians.
(C)
The issuance of visas or other immigration benefits to reunite such covered children with their parents or legal guardians.
(D)
The provision of additional services and support to such covered children and their parents or legal guardians, including trauma and mental health services.
(E)
Reunification of any additional family members of such covered children, such as siblings.
(c)
Consultation
In developing the recommendations under paragraph (2) of subsection (b), the Task Force shall consult with the following:
(1)
Relevant stakeholders, including domestic and international non-governmental organizations.
(2)
Representatives of covered children.
(d)
Reports
Not later than 60 days after the establishment of the Task Force and every 60 days thereafter, the Task Force shall report to the appropriate congressional committees on the activities of the Task Force during the immediately preceding 60-day period, including relating to any recommendations under subsection (b)(2) that require congressional action.
(e)
Sunset
This Act shall terminate on the date that is—
(1)
120 days after the date on which all covered children have been reunited with their parents or legal guardians, or
(2)
January 20, 2039,
whichever is earliest.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
in the House of Representatives—
(i)
the Committee on Homeland Security;
(ii)
the Committee on the Judiciary;
(iii)
the Committee on Energy and Commerce; and
(iv)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs; and
(B)
in the Senate—
(i)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs;
(ii)
the Committee on the Judiciary;
(iii)
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions; and
(iv)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
(2)
Covered children
The term
covered children
means all persons who were under the age of 18 who were separated from their parents or legal guardians at the United States–Mexico border between January 20, 2017, and January 20, 2021, in connection with the implementation of the Zero-Tolerance Policy.
(3)
Zero-Tolerance Policy
The term
Zero-Tolerance Policy
means—
(A)
the policy specified in the Attorney General’s memorandum of April 6, 2018, entitled
Zero-Tolerance for Offenses Under 8 U.S.C. § 1325(a)
; or
(B)
any other related policy, program, practice, or initiative.
