1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Veterans’ Experience Act of 2024
.
2.
Establishment of Office of Veterans Experience
(a)
In general
Chapter 3
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
325.
Office of Veterans Experience
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Department, within the Office of the Secretary, an office to be known as the
Office of Veterans Experience
(hereinafter referred to as the
Office
in this section).
(b)
Head of Office
(1)
The head of the Office shall be the Chief Veterans Experience Officer.
(2)
The Chief Veterans Experience Officer shall—
(A)
be appointed by the Secretary from among individuals the Secretary considers qualified to perform the duties of the position; and
(B)
report directly to the Secretary.
(c)
Functions
The functions of the Office are the following:
(1)
To carry out initiatives of the Department regarding the experience of veterans in accessing and using benefits furnished by the Secretary, including establishing guidance (including strategies, frameworks, and policies) for the Department regarding such benefits.
(2)
To collect and analyze data to identify reasons why veterans do not use such benefits for which they are eligible.
(3)
To report to Congress regarding data and reasons described in paragraph (2), disaggregated by—
(A)
type of such benefit; and
(B)
such reasons (including ignorance of such benefits, barriers to receiving such benefits, or comparable benefits furnished by another entity).
(4)
To engage with veterans described in paragraph (2).
(5)
To collect information (including metrics and action plans) from other components of the Department to improve such experience of veterans.
(6)
To report to Congress regarding the demographic data of veterans, disaggregated by categories including age, gender identity, race, ethnicity, Tribal affiliation, and sexual orientation.
(7)
To carry out such other functions relating to such experience of veterans that the Secretary determines appropriate.
(d)
Staff and resources
The Secretary shall ensure that the Office has such staff, resources, and access to information as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Office.
(e)
Privacy
Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the Chief Veterans Experience Officer to disclose any record in contravention of section 552a of title 5 (commonly referred to as the Privacy Act of 1974).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
325. Office of Veterans Experience.
.
3.
GAO review of 1-800-MyVA411 hotline
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing the analysis of the Comptroller General regarding the efficacy of the 1–800–MyVA411 hotline.
