1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disrupt Fentanyl Pill Production Act
.
2.
FDA regulation of lawful use of pill press molds
(a)
Prohibited act
Section 301 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 331
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(jjj)
The intentional introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of a drug that was manufactured using a pill press mold in violation of section 524C.
.
(b)
Requirements
Subchapter A of chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 351 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
524C.
Pill press molds
(a)
Serial numbers
The Secretary shall require each pill press mold that is used to manufacture a drug intended for introduction into interstate commerce to bear a unique serial number.
(b)
Registration
The Secretary shall require each manufacturer that uses a pill press mold to manufacture drugs intended for introduction into interstate commerce—
(1)
to register with the Food and Drug Administration; and
(2)
to include in such registration—
(A)
the serial number required under subsection (a) for each pill press mold so used; and
(B)
such other information regarding such pill press molds as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Coordination
The Secretary and the Attorney General shall ensure coordination and information-sharing in the regulation of pill press molds.
(d)
Definition
In this section and section 301(jjj), the term
pill press mold
means any punch, die, plate, stone, or other object designed to print, imprint, or reproduce on a drug (or the container or labeling thereof) the trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark, imprint, number, or device, or any likeness thereof, of a manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser other than the person or persons who in fact manufactured, distributed, or dispensed such product.
.
(c)
Regulations
Not later than1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall promulgate a final regulation to carry out sections 301(jjj) and 524C of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by this section.
(d)
Delayed applicability
Sections 301(jjj) and 524C of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by this section, apply beginning on the date that is 2 years after the date on which the final regulation required by subsection (c) is promulgated.
3.
Unlawful possession of pill press molds
(a)
Prohibition
Section 401 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 841
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(i)
Offense regarding unlawful possession of pill press molds
(1)
In general
Whoever, with intent to manufacture in violation of this title a counterfeit substance in schedule I or II in a capsule, tablet, or other form for distribution, knowingly possesses a pill press mold, shall be imprisoned not more than 20 years and fined in accordance with title 18, United States Code.
(2)
Definitions
In this subsection, the term
pill press mold
means any punch, die, plate, stone, or other object designed to print, imprint, or reproduce on a controlled substance (or the container or labeling thereof) the trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark, imprint, number, or device, or any likeness thereof, of a manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser other than the person or persons who in fact manufactured, distributed, or dispensed such product, thereby rendering it a counterfeit substance.
.
(b)
Sentencing guidelines
Pursuant to its authority under section 994 of title 28, United States Code, and in accordance with this section, the United States Sentencing Commission shall review and amend, as appropriate, the Federal sentencing guidelines and policy statements to ensure that the guidelines provide for a penalty enhancement of not less than 2 offense levels above the offense level otherwise applicable for a violation of section 401(a) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 841(a)
) if the defendant is found, in connection with such violation of section 401(a), to be in violation of section 401(i) of the Controlled Substances Act, as added by subsection (a).
