1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
School Safety Notification System Act
.
2.
Emergency response and parental notification procedures
Title VIII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
H
Emergency response and parental notification procedures
8701.
Emergency response and parental notification procedures
(a)
Policies and notification required
As a condition of receiving funds under this Act, each local educational agency shall—
(1)
develop and implement emergency response procedures covering all students, faculty, and staff at public elementary and secondary schools under the jurisdiction of the agency; and
(2)
pursuant to such procedures, ensure that parents and guardians receive timely notification of covered threats and emergencies that occur on school grounds, during school transportation, or during school-sponsored activities.
(b)
Additional requirements
The emergency response and notification procedures developed under subsection (a) shall meet the following criteria:
(1)
The procedures shall be developed in consultation with appropriate public safety agencies.
(2)
Commonly used alarm system responses for specific types of emergencies shall be implemented.
(3)
The procedures shall identify—
(A)
the primary emergency response agency that is responsible for each type of covered threat or emergency; and
(B)
the individuals within each school who are responsible for contacting the primary emergency response agency in the event of such a threat or emergency.
(c)
Covered threats and emergencies defined
In this section, the term
covered threats and emergencies
means—
(1)
weapons possession or use when there is intended harm toward another person;
(2)
active shooter or hostage situations;
(3)
bomb threats;
(4)
murder, homicide, or manslaughter;
(5)
sex offenses, including rape, sexual assault, or sexual misconduct involving a student and school personnel;
(6)
trespassing;
(7)
fires;
(8)
natural weather emergencies, including hurricanes, tornadoes, and severe storms;
(9)
natural disasters;
(10)
exposure to harmful substances or conditions as a result of a manmade emergency; and
(11)
such other threats and emergencies as a local educational agency determines appropriate to address through the procedures required under subsection (a).
.
