1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Atrocity Prevention Act
.
2.
Extension and modification of annual report requirement
Section 5(a) of the Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2018 (
22 U.S.C. 2656
note) is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
for the following six years
; and
(2)
in paragraph (1)(E), by inserting
(ranked as high-, medium-, or low-risk)
after
countries and regions at risk of atrocities
.
3.
Review of security assistance provided to countries
The Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2018 (
22 U.S.C. 2656
note) is amended by inserting after section 5 the following:
5A.
Security assistance and cooperation review
(a)
Review required
Not later than 60 days after the submission of each annual report required by section 5, the Secretary of State (acting through the Department of State officials listed in subsection (c)), in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report consisting of the results of a review of the risks related to the provision of security assistance and cooperation in countries identified in the most recent annual report (including in the classified annex to such report) pursuant to such section 5 as being at high- or medium-risk for atrocities. Such report shall also include, for each such country, the following:
(1)
With respect to a country newly identified as being at such risk, an assessment of the risks associated with providing security assistance and cooperation to the governments of such countries, including the risks of whether security assistance and cooperation—
(A)
may be used for perpetrating atrocities; or
(B)
may exacerbate identified relevant risk factors for the commission of such atrocities.
(2)
With respect to a country identified as being at high- or medium-risk for atrocities for which an assessment described in paragraph (1) has previously been submitted pursuant to this section, an assessment of whether such risk factors, the current or planned security assistance and cooperation provided by the United States, or other relevant context have changed in the intervening period since the prior submission.
(3)
A determination, including a justification, on whether current or planned United States security assistance and cooperation should be continued, terminated, paused, or otherwise delayed in light of the risks assessed pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2).
(b)
Definitions
For purposes of the review required by subsection (a)—
(1)
the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
(2)
the term
security assistance and cooperation
—
(A)
means—
(i)
assistance meeting the definition of
security assistance
under section 502B of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2304(d)(2)
);
(ii)
programs and activities meeting the definition of
security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense
under section 301 of title 10, United States Code; and
(iii)
activities authorized pursuant to—
(I)
127(e) of title 10, United States Code; or
(II)
section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1639); and
(B)
includes any use of amounts made available to the Department of Defense—
(i)
to increase the capacity or capability of a unit of a foreign security force, a member of such a unit, or an irregular force, group, or individual; or
(ii)
to support foreign security forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals to operate with United States forces in coalition, combined operations or other operations.
(c)
Department of State officials
The Department of State officials listed in this subsection are the Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor working jointly with the Assistant Secretary for Conflict and Stabilization Operations, and in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Political-Military Affairs Bureau.
(d)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form and may include a classified annex.
.
