1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Restoring Trust in Public Safety Act
.
2.
Grant program
(a)
In general
The Attorney General may make grants to an eligible entity for activities related to firearm destruction. For purposes of this section, the term
eligible entity
means a State, Tribal government, or unit of local government, or any law enforcement agency thereof.
(b)
Program authorized
Not later than 180 days after such amounts are appropriated, the Attorney General shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities whose applications are approved under subsection (c) to assist such applicants in firearm destruction.
(c)
Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time and containing such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require, including—
(1)
a description of how the applicant will use the grant to carry out firearm destruction;
(2)
a description of community partners and organizations contracted by or working with the eligible entity and their roles in supporting a State or Tribal government or a unit of local government’s programs and initiatives related to the acquisition, disposal, or destruction of a firearm or firearm parts;
(3)
certification that funds awarded to the applicant will be used to destroy firearms fully, including all parts and components; and
(4)
certification that the applicant will make and maintain records on the firearms and firearm parts that are destroyed.
(d)
Subgrants
States, Tribal governments, and units of local government that are grantees shall award subgrants to units of local government or law enforcement agencies thereof. A unit of local government or law enforcement agency thereof seeking a subgrant that does not receive a grant under this Act may submit an application to the chief executive of the grantee that is substantially similar to the application prescribed by the Attorney General.
(e)
Grant duration
The duration of a grant awarded to an eligible entity under this section shall be two years.
(f)
Proof of firearm destruction
The Attorney General shall require that a grantee or subgrantee develop and maintain a written policy on the destruction of firearms and other weapons including, without limitation, policies for identifying firearms and other weapons that are determined to be destroyed, keeping records of those firearms and other weapons and provide documented proof of firearm destruction. The Attorney General shall by rule establish acceptable forms of documented proof of destruction.
(g)
Use of funds
A grantee may use the grant for firearm destruction and related activities, including the following:
(1)
The purchase or maintenance of equipment used for firearm destruction, including tools used to smelt, crush, cut, or shred a firearm and components of a firearm.
(2)
Contracts with businesses that offer firearm destruction services, provided that they fully destroy the firearm, including all parts, components, and accessories of such firearms.
(3)
The training of staff in firearm destruction.
(h)
Administrative costs
An eligible entity shall use not more than 10 percent of such funds for the administrative costs of carrying out the grant program under this Act.
(i)
Small urban and rural preference
In awarding grants, under this Act, the Attorney General shall set aside one-third of the total appropriated funding for grants to applicants representing a Metropolitan Statistical Area (as defined by the Office of Management and Budget) or rural area.
(j)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2030 to carry out this Act.
(k)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, or any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
(2)
Tribal government
The term
Tribal government
means the recognized governing body of an Indian Tribe.
(3)
Firearm destruction
The term
firearm destruction
means to destroy a firearm or other weapon in its entirety by smelting, shredding, crushing, or cutting and shall include all parts including, without limitation, the frame or receiver, barrel, bolt, and grip of a firearm, as applicable, and any attachments including, but not limited to, a sight, scope, silencer, or suppressor, as applicable.
