1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Have You Served Act
.
2.
Grants for Ask the Question Campaigns
(a)
Grant program
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall make grants to eligible entities for the purpose of carrying out campaigns, to be known as
Ask the Question Campaigns
, to encourage human services professionals, State and local governments, and community providers to ask consumers whether they or a loved one have served in the Armed Forces.
(b)
Use of funds
An eligible entity that receives a grant under subsection (a) shall use the grant—
(1)
to develop or expand an Ask the Question Campaign, under which the entity shall provide training to human services professionals, State and local governments, and community providers about—
(A)
how to appropriately ask consumers whether they or a loved one have served in the Armed Forces; and
(B)
resources available for members of the Armed Forces and veterans in their community through the Department of Veterans Affairs and other service providers to encourage the recipients of such training to refer consumer to the Department and other service providers, as appropriate; and
(2)
for associated program costs, including staffing, technology, marketing and outreach materials, and convenings.
(c)
Eligible entity
For purposes of this section, an eligible entity is a State or an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe—
(1)
that—
(A)
in the case of a State, develops a veteran suicide prevention plan, known as a
Governors Challenge Action Plan
; or
(B)
in the case of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe, develops a veteran suicide prevention plan; and
(2)
that submits to the Secretary a proposal for the implementation of such plan that contains such information and assurances as the Secretary may require.
(d)
Technical assistance
The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to eligible entities that receive grants under this section to support the development and implementation of Ask the Question Campaigns. Such assistance shall include—
(1)
the provision of best practices acquired from the experiences of other eligible entities carrying out Ask the Question Campaigns;
(2)
the provision of information on veterans resources in the State where the eligible entity is located;
(3)
the provision of information about screening protocols used by the Department for assessing suicide risk and social determinants of health; and
(4)
establishing key performance indicators for the training provided under the Campaigns.
(e)
Amount of grant
The Secretary may make up to 25 grants under this section for each of fiscal years 2024, 2025, and 2026. Each such grant shall be in an amount that does not exceed
$200,000
.
(f)
Reporting
(1)
Grant recipients
As a condition of a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall agree to submit, by not later than the last day of each fiscal year during which the entity receives a grant, to the Secretary a report on the key performance indicators for the training provided using the grant funds.
(2)
Implementation report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the implementation of this section.
(3)
Annual report
Not later than 30 days after the last day of a fiscal year for which the Secretary makes a grant under this section, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the key performance indicators for the training provided under such grants.
(g)
Ask the Question Campaigns for Federal Agencies
The Secretary, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall develop a plan to work with each Federal department and agency to implement Ask the Question Campaigns, where appropriate, through any social service or health care programs of the department or agency through which employees of the department or agency interact with individuals receiving services and benefits.
(h)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out this section $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028.
(i)
State defined
In this section, the term
State
means each of the several States, Territories, and possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
