1.
Evaluation of locations for deployment of successor radar systems of the National Weather Service
(a)
Plan To improve radar coverage
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce and the Director of the National Weather Service, in consultation with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a plan for improving radar coverage, by integrating or upgrading, to the extent practicable and as the case may be, additional observation solutions to improve hazardous weather detection and forecasting.
(2)
Determination
(A)
In general
In developing the plan to improve radar coverage under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Commerce and the Director of the National Weather Service, in consultation with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration—
(i)
shall prioritize locations for the deployment of the successor radar system that will replace the current Next Generation Weather Radar of the National Weather Radar Service (NEXRAD); and
(ii)
may determine additional appropriate locations for the deployment of such successor radar system installations.
(B)
Consideration
In making a determination pursuant to subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Commerce and the Director of the National Weather Service shall consider deployment in at least three locations that are not less than 75 miles from an existing NEXRAD station. In making such a determination for a deployment location, the Secretary of Commerce and the Director of the National Weather Service may also consider the criteria described in subsection (b).
(b)
Criteria described
The criteria described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Whether a population of 200,000 or more would be served by a successor radar installation at the location.
(2)
The frequency of any of the following issuances at the location:
(A)
Severe thunderstorm watches or warnings.
(B)
Tornado watches or warnings.
(C)
Flash flood watches or warnings.
(D)
Winter storm warnings.
