1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Agricultural Representation for the United States Territories Act
.
2.
Congressional findings and statement of purpose
(a)
Findings
The Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The United States territories face a unique set of challenges that have curbed agricultural development and food sovereignty for more than 3.5 million United States citizens and nationals, including long recovery processes from natural disasters, vulnerability to extreme weather events, and barriers to participation in Federal programs.
(2)
The United States territories import between 70 to 90 percent of their food at a high cost to residents. Puerto Rico, which has the largest population of all United States territories, imports 85 percent of the food consumed locally. Natural disasters and public health emergencies, such as the COVID–19 pandemic, further affect the dependency on imports and the availability of food for residents.
(3)
The lack of political representation for the United States territories at the Federal level has affected the possibility to prioritize these challenges and advance the agricultural development of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam.
(b)
Statement of purpose
It is the purpose of this Act to provide representation to the five United States territories, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam, on the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board, and therefore contribute to setting a coordinated path forward at the Federal level for the agricultural development of the United States territories.
3.
Representation for United States territories on National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board
Section 1408 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (
7 U.S.C. 3123
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
15 members
and inserting
16 members
; and
(B)
in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the following:
(E)
1 member representing the agricultural interests of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam.
; and
(2)
in subsection (h), by striking
2023
and inserting
2028
.
