1.
Ambassador-at-Large for the Arctic Region
Title I of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (
22 U.S.C. 2651a et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
64.
United States Ambassador-at-Large for the Arctic Region
(a)
Establishment
There is authorized within the Department of State an Ambassador-at-Large for the Arctic Region, appointed under subsection (b).
(b)
Appointment
The Ambassador shall be appointed by the President, by, and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(c)
Duties
The Ambassador is authorized to represent the United States in matters and cases relevant to Arctic affairs and shall be responsible to the Secretary of State for all matters, programs, and related activities pertaining to the Arctic region in the conduct of foreign policy by the Department, including, as appropriate, leading the coordination of programs carried out by United States Government agencies abroad, and such other related duties as the Secretary may from time to time designate.
(d)
Areas of responsibility
The Ambassador-at-Large for the Arctic Region is authorized to maintain continuous observation and coordination of all matters indicated by the Secretary of State, including those pertaining to energy, environment, trade, and infrastructure development and maintenance, and, in consultation with the heads of other relevant departments and agencies, those pertaining to law enforcement and political-military affairs in the conduct of foreign policy in the Arctic, including programs carried out by other United States Government agencies when such programs pertain to the following matters, to the extent directed by the Secretary of State:
(1)
National security.
(2)
Strengthening cooperation among Arctic countries.
(3)
The promotion of responsible natural resource management and economic development.
(4)
Protecting the Arctic environment and conserving its biological resources.
(5)
Arctic indigenous peoples, including by involving them in decisions that affect them.
(6)
Scientific monitoring and research.
(e)
Additional duties
In addition to the duties and responsibilities specified in subsections (c) and (d), the Ambassador-at-Large for the Arctic Region shall also carry out such other relevant duties as the Secretary may assign.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Arctic region
The term
Arctic region
means—
(A)
the geographic region north of the 66.56083 parallel latitude north of the equator;
(B)
all the United States territory north and west of the boundary formed by the Porcupine, Yukon, and Kuskokwim Rivers;
(C)
all contiguous seas, including the Arctic Ocean and the Beaufort, Bering, and Chukchi Seas; and
(D)
the Aleutian Chain.
(2)
Arctic countries
The term
Arctic countries
means the permanent members of the Arctic Council, namely the United States, Canada, Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia.
.
