1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Michael F. Donoughe Tax Credit for Off Road Electric Vehicles Act
.
2.
Credit for new off-road plug-in electric vehicles
(a)
In general
Section 30D
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i), and by inserting after subsection (g) the following new subsection:
(h)
Credit allowed for new off-Road plug-In electric vehicles
(1)
In general
In the case of any new qualified off-road plug-in electric vehicle—
(A)
there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount equal to the sum of the applicable amount with respect to each such new qualified off-road plug-in electric vehicle placed in service by the taxpayer during the taxable year, and
(B)
the amount of the credit allowed under subparagraph (A) shall be treated as a credit allowed under subsection (a).
(2)
Applicable amount
For purposes of paragraph (1), the applicable amount is an amount equal to the lesser of—
(A)
10 percent of the cost of the new qualified off-road plug-in electric vehicle, or
(B)
$2,500.
(3)
New qualified off-road plug-in electric vehicle
For purposes of this subsection, the term
new qualified off-road plug-in electric vehicle
means any vehicle which—
(A)
meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (F), (G), and (H) of subsection (d)(1) (determined by substituting
6 kilowatt hours
for
7 kilowatt hours
in subparagraph (F)(i)),
(B)
has a dry weight of less than 3,500 pounds,
(C)
has 3 or more wheels and 1 or more seats,
(D)
is manufactured primarily for use on other than public streets, roads, and highways,
(E)
is designed to be used primarily on rough terrain,
(F)
is capable of achieving a speed of 40 miles per hour, and
(G)
except in the case of a vehicle designed to operate on land and water, is not designed to operate on rails, in the air, or in or on the water.
.
(b)
One credit per vehicle
Section 30D(f)(8) of such Code is amended by striking
described in subsection (a)
and inserting
under this section
.
(c)
Transfer of credit
Section 30D(g)(1) of such Code is amended by inserting
or new qualified off-road plug-in electric vehicle
after
new clean vehicle
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2023.
