1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Short-Term Detention Standards Act
.
2.
Access to appropriate temporary shelter, food, and water during short-term detention
Paragraph (1) of section 411(m) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 211(m)
) is amended to read as follows:
(1)
Access to appropriate temporary shelter, food, and water
The Commissioner shall make every effort to ensure the provision to an individual apprehended by U.S. Customs and Border Protection of appropriate temporary shelter with access to bathroom and shower facilities, water, appropriate nutrition, hygiene, personal grooming items, and sanitation needs.
.
3.
Audit and inspections of detention facilities
(a)
OIG and GAO
The Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security and the Comptroller General shall carry out regular audits and inspections, including unannounced audits and inspections, of processes (including recordkeeping) utilized by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to conduct intake and process individuals apprehended by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The Inspector General and Comptroller General shall, to the extent possible, share information and coordinate to ensure that Congress is provided timely audit and inspection information.
(b)
Congressional access
The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection may not—
(1)
prevent a Member of Congress or an employee of the United States House of Representatives or the United States Senate designated by such a Member for the purposes of this section from entering, for the purpose of conducting oversight, any such facility; and
(2)
make any temporary modification at any such facility that in any way alters what is observed by a visiting member of Congress or such designated employee, compared to what would be observed in the absence of such modification.
(c)
Photographs
The Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security, Comptroller General, a Member of Congress, or an employee of the United States House of Representatives or United States Senate shall be authorized to take photographs or video or audio recordings of conditions in a facility but may not publish photographs or video or audio recordings with personally identifiable information without permission.
