1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Drought Relief Obtained Using Government Help Today Act of 2024
or the
DROUGHT Act of 2024
.
2.
Federal assistance for certain water infrastructure projects
Section 5029(b)(9) of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 (
33 U.S.C. 3908(b)(9)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(D)
Exceptions for certain projects
(i)
Projects in States experiencing severe drought
Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the Administrator may finance up to 90 percent of the costs of a project described in paragraph (6) or (7) of section 5026 located in—
(I)
a State that has been designated as D2 (severe drought) or greater according to the United States Drought Monitor for a minimum of 4 weeks during any of the 3 years preceding the date on which assistance is provided for the project under this subtitle; or
(II)
a county for which a drought emergency has been declared by the applicable Governor at any time during the 3-year period preceding that date.
(ii)
Projects in historically disadvantaged communities
Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the Administrator may finance up to 90 percent of the costs of a project described in paragraph (6) or (7) of section 5026 that serves a community that—
(I)
is designated as disadvantaged, underserved, or financially distressed by—
(aa)
the Climate and Economic Justice Screening Tool of the Council on Environmental Quality; or
(bb)
the Administrator pursuant to a water infrastructure program of the Environmental Protection Agency, including water infrastructure grant programs, clean water and drinking water grant programs, and other grant programs under the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.
) and the Federal Water Protection Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
); or
(II)
meets the affordability criteria established by a State pursuant to section 1452(d)(3) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j–12(d)(3)
) or section 603(i)(2) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1383(i)(2)
).
(iii)
Priority
In carrying out this subparagraph, the Administrator shall prioritize financing for projects that—
(I)
are located in a State that is experiencing severe drought, as described in subclause (I) of clause (i), or a county for which a drought emergency has been declared, as described in subclause (II) of that clause; and
(II)
serve a community that is designated as disadvantaged, underserved, or financially distressed, or meets affordability criteria established by a State, as described in clause (ii).
.
