1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Shrinkflation Reduction Act
.
2.
FTC regulations with respect to shrinkflation transparency
(a)
Requirement
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall promulgate, under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, regulations to ensure that a manufacturer incorporates, on the packaging of each consumer product of the manufacturer with respect to which the manufacturer has engaged in shrinkflation, labeling to inform consumers of such shrinkflation.
(b)
Enforcement by Commission
(1)
Unfair or deceptive acts or practices
A violation of a regulation promulgated under subsection (a) shall be treated as a violation of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (
15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)
).
(2)
Powers of the commission
The Commission shall enforce the regulations promulgated under subsection (a) in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (
15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.
) were incorporated into and made a part of this Act. Any person who violates a regulation promulgated under subsection (a) shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act (
15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.
).
(3)
Authority preserved
Nothing in this Act may be construed to limit the authority of the Commission under any other provision of law.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Trade Commission.
(2)
Consumer product
The term
consumer product
has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty—Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act (
15 U.S.C. 2301
).
(3)
Shrinkflation
(A)
In general
The term
shrinkflation
means the practice of downsizing, including by reducing the amount or size of, a consumer product while not decreasing the price of such product by a commensurate amount.
(B)
Modifications
The Commission may promulgate, under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, regulations to modify the definition in subparagraph (A) as the Commission considers appropriate.
