1.
National Security Council Fentanyl Disruption Steering Group
(a)
Establishment
There is established within the National Security Council a Fentanyl Disruption Steering Group (in this section referred to as the
Steering Group
).
(b)
Membership
(1)
In general
The Steering Group shall be composed of—
(A)
the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, who shall serve as chair; and
(B)
a senior official from each of the agencies described in paragraph (2), to be appointed by the head of the respective agency of such official (and in the case of the intelligence community, to be appointed by the Director of National Intelligence).
(2)
Agencies described
The agencies described in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
The Department of State.
(B)
The Department of the Treasury.
(C)
The Department of Defense.
(D)
The Department of Justice.
(E)
The Department of Commerce.
(F)
The Department of Health and Human Services.
(G)
The Department of Transportation.
(H)
The Department of Energy.
(I)
The Department of Homeland Security.
(J)
The intelligence community (as defined in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003(4)
)).
(K)
The United States Postal Service.
(c)
Duties
The Steering Group shall have the following duties:
(1)
Oversee implementation of the policy priorities and directives undertaken by the agencies described in subsection (b)(2) to combat fentanyl trafficking and use.
(2)
Identify and set goals for strategic disruption of fentanyl.
(3)
Assist in ensuring that all of the available resources and tools are brought to the efforts described in paragraphs (1) and (2) in accordance with strategic priorities.
(4)
Oversee updates to and implementation of the Strategy to Combat Fentanyl and Other Synthetic Drugs of the United States Customs and Border Protection.
(5)
Identify disagreements and challenges for interagency review by the Steering Group.
(d)
Annual submission of description of initiatives
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the agencies described in subsection (b)(2) shall submit to the chair of the Steering Group a detailed description of the existing and planned fusion cells, joint task forces, mission centers, and similar multi-department initiatives relating to fentanyl disruption of such agencies, including an explanation of purposes, goals, and composition, to support efforts to ensure appropriate prioritization and resourcing and minimize duplication of efforts.
(2)
Form of submissions
The descriptions described in paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(e)
Strategic plan for public-Private partnerships
(1)
In general
The Steering Group shall develop and maintain an ongoing strategic plan for public-private partnerships between the agencies described in subsection (b)(2) and private entities on fentanyl trafficking disruption.
(2)
Reports to Congress
Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Steering Group shall submit to Congress a report describing the strategic plan referred to in paragraph (1).
