1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Mental Health Emergency Needs in Disasters Act
.
2.
Assistance for mental health services after major disaster
Title IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
431.
Mobile mental health crisis services
(a)
In general
The President, acting through the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, is authorized to provide mental and behavioral health counseling services to victims of a major disaster in order to relieve mental health problems caused or aggravated by such major disaster or the aftermath of such disaster.
(b)
Type of assistance
The provision of behavioral counseling services under this section shall be provided through mobile mental health crisis units and such units shall—
(1)
be deployed to counties located in the area affected by a major disaster for not more than 2 years after the date on which the President declared such major disaster;
(2)
be staffed by individuals who—
(A)
are employees of the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
(B)
are appropriately trained to—
(i)
address the effects of major disasters on communities and individuals with socioeconomically disadvantaged backgrounds; and
(ii)
provide culturally appropriate care;
(C)
are professionally trained and appropriately licensed to provide evidence-based care, such as psychological first aid, crisis counseling, sudden death counseling, and counseling to individuals with post-traumatic stress disorder; and
(D)
to the extent practicable, have experience providing mental health services in the area affected by the major disaster; and
(3)
disperse information about resources, other preventive materials, and available peer supports.
(c)
Technical assistance
In carrying out this section, the Administrator may consult with and receive technical assistance or training from the Director of the Center for Mental Health Services of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
(d)
Timing
The Administrator shall ensure that mobile mental health crisis units described in subsection (b) are deployed immediately following a major disaster.
432.
Mental health disaster grants
(a)
In general
The President, acting through the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, is authorized to provide grants to a State or Indian tribal government for the purpose of providing behavioral health treatment, including screening and diagnosis, crisis counseling, other related crisis helplines, or other service-delivery programs to individuals affected by a major disaster.
(b)
Eligibility
A State or Indian tribal government may only receive a grant under this section during the 2-year period beginning on the date on which the President declares the major disaster for which the State or Indian tribal government applies for such grant.
(c)
Application
Any State or Indian tribal government seeking a grant under this section shall submit to the Administrator an application containing materials describing any mental health services available to individuals in the jurisdiction of the State or Indian tribal government, including an initial needs assessment describing unmet mental health service needs, and critical gaps in mental and substance use disorder prevention, treatment, and recovery support service systems.
(d)
Prioritization
In providing grants under this section, the Administrator shall prioritize awarding grants to States or Indian tribal governments with jurisdiction over areas that have high unmet needs for mental health services.
(e)
Technical assistance
In carrying out this section, the Administrator may consult with and receive technical assistance or training from the Director of the Center for Mental Health Services of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $44,000,000 for each fiscal year.
.
3.
Research on mental health and substance use disorders after major disaster
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall establish a research program on the effects of major disasters (as such term is defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5122
)) on incidences and severity of mental health disorders, substance use disorders, and alcohol use disorders, including the incidence and severity of such disorders across cultural, racial, and socioeconomic groups.
(b)
Requirements
The program established under subsection (a) shall include research on—
(1)
efficacy of assistance provided under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
);
(2)
the various long-term behavioral health effects on adults and children caused by specific types of major disasters; and
(3)
any other subject that the Administrator determines is necessary.
