1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prescription Transparency Act of 2018
.
2.
Prohibited gag provisions
Part B of title III of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 243
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
320B.
Prohibited gag provisions
(a)
In general
No contract that is between—
(1)
a health insurer or any entity that provides pharmacy benefits management services on behalf of a health insurer (commonly referred to as a
pharmacy benefit manager
); and
(2)
a pharmacy, pharmacist, or a pharmacy's contracting agent, such as a pharmacy services administrative organization,
may contain a provision prohibiting or penalizing (including through increased utilization review,
reduced payments, or other financial disincentives) a pharmacist’s
disclosure to an individual purchasing a prescription drug of information
regarding the cost of the prescription drug to the individual (including
any copayment or coinsurance), or regarding the availability of any
therapeutically equivalent alternative drug, or alternative methods of
purchasing the prescription drug (including paying a cash price), that are
less expensive than the cost of the prescription drug to the individual.
(b)
Null and void
Any provision described in subsection (a) in a contract described in subsection (a) is null and void.
(c)
Applicability
Subsection (a) applies only with respect to contracts, and contract addenda, entered into or renewed on or after the date of enactment of the
Prescription Transparency Act of 2018
.
(d)
Regulations and guidance
The Secretary may issue such regulations and guidance as may be necessary for implementation of this section.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
drug
has the meaning given to such term in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(2)
The term
health insurer
means a health insurance issuer (as defined in section 2791) offering health insurance coverage (as defined in such section) in the individual or group market or a sponsor of a group health plan (as defined in such section).
(3)
The term
prescription drug
means a drug subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
.
