1.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the top priority of the Department of Education should be to keep American children safe in schools.
2.
Grant program to secure schools
(a)
In general
From the amounts appropriated to carry out this Act, the Secretary of Education shall award grants to local educational agencies to secure the elementary schools and secondary schools served by such agencies.
(b)
Application
To receive a grant under this Act, a local educational agency shall submit an application to the Secretary of Education at such time, in such manner, and containing such information that the Secretary may require, which shall include the results of an independent security assessment.
(c)
Uses of funds
A local educational agency receiving a grant under this Act—
(1)
shall use such grant to make the necessary improvements to the security of the elementary schools and secondary schools served by the agency based upon the vulnerabilities determined in the individual security assessment completed by the agency under subsection (b);
(2)
may use such grant to cover the cost of such assessment; and
(3)
may not use such grant for expenses unrelated to the cost of such assessment or such necessary improvements.
(d)
Funds
Any amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the Secretary of Education for any purpose for a fiscal year may be made available for this Act for that fiscal year, notwithstanding any provision of law with respect to the purpose, reprogramming, or transfer of such amounts.
(e)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
ESEA terms
The terms
elementary school
,
local educational agency
, and
secondary school
have the meanings given such terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(2)
Independent security assessment
The term
independent security assessment
means an assessment—
(A)
conducted by an organization that does not have a business relationship with the local educational agency for which the assessment is being conducted; and
(B)
for which the content is determined by the Secretary of Education.
