1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DEA Enforcement and Authority Act of 2018
.
2.
Denial, revocation, or suspension of controlled substances registration
(a)
Standard of review for immediate suspension orders
Section 304(d) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 824(d)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by inserting after
competent jurisdiction
the following:
based on a determination that the Attorney General failed to comply with paragraph (2) under the standard of review set forth in section 507
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
a substantial likelihood of an immediate threat that death, serious bodily harm, or abuse
and inserting
probable cause to believe an imminent threat that death, serious bodily harm, abuse, or diversion
.
(b)
Opportunity To submit corrective action plan prior to revocation or suspension
(1)
In general
Section 304(c) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 824(c)
) is amended—
(A)
by striking paragraphs (2) through (5);
(B)
by striking
(c)(1) Before
and inserting
(c) Before
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
The order to show cause shall contain a statement of the basis thereof and shall call upon the applicant or registrant to appear before the Attorney General at a time and place stated in the order, but in no event less than 30 days after the date of receipt of the order. Proceedings to deny, revoke, or suspend shall be conducted pursuant to this section in accordance with subchapter II of
chapter 5
of title 5, United States Code. Such proceedings shall be independent of, and not in lieu of, criminal prosecutions or other proceedings under this title or any other law of the United States.
.
(2)
Applicability to pending corrective action plans
The Attorney General shall not be required to review any corrective action plan submitted by an applicant or registrant under section 304(c)(2) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 824(c)(2)
), as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act.
