1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Custer County Airport Conveyance Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
County
The term
County
means Custer County, South Dakota.
(2)
Federal land
The term
Federal land
means all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to approximately 65.7 acres of National Forest System land, as generally depicted on the map.
(3)
Map
The term
map
means the map entitled
Custer County Airport Conveyance
and dated October 19, 2017.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
3.
Land conveyance
(a)
In general
Subject to the terms and conditions described in subsection (b), if the County submits to the Secretary an offer to acquire the Federal land for the market value, as determined by the appraisal under subsection (c), the Secretary shall convey the Federal land to the County.
(b)
Terms and conditions
The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be—
(1)
subject to valid existing rights;
(2)
made by quitclaim deed; and
(3)
subject to any other terms and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(c)
Appraisal
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete an appraisal to determine the market value of the Federal land.
(2)
Standards
The appraisal under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in accordance with—
(A)
the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(B)
the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(d)
Map
(1)
Availability of map
The map shall be kept on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate office of the Forest Service.
(2)
Correction of errors
The Secretary may correct any errors in the map.
(e)
Consideration
As consideration for the conveyance under subsection (a), the County shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the market value of the Federal land, as determined by the appraisal under subsection (c).
(f)
Survey
The exact acreage and legal description of the Federal land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
(g)
Environmental compliance
The Secretary may determine whether compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.) or any other environmental law is applicable in carrying out the conveyance under subsection (a).
(h)
Costs of conveyance
As a condition on the conveyance under subsection (a), the County shall pay to the Secretary all costs associated with the conveyance, including the cost of—
(1)
the appraisal under subsection (c); and
(2)
the survey under subsection (f).
(i)
Deposit and use of proceeds
Any proceeds received by the Secretary as a consideration for the conveyance under subsection (a) shall remain available to the Secretary until expended, without further appropriation, for the maintenance and improvement of lands or administration facilities in the State of South Dakota.
