1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Citizens’ Right to Know Act of 2017
.
2.
Reporting requirement for Department of Justice grant recipients using funds for pretrial services programs
(a)
In general
For each fiscal year in which a State or unit of local government receives funds under any grant program operated by the Department of Justice, including the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance grant program under subpart I of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 3750
et seq.), and which uses funds received under such program for a pretrial services program, the State or unit of local government shall submit to the Attorney General a report which contains the following:
(1)
The name of each defendant participating in a pretrial release program administered by the pretrial services program, and whether, as applicable, each occasion on which such defendant failed to make an appearance.
(2)
Information relating to the previous arrest record of each defendant participating in the pretrial services program.
(b)
Publication requirement
Subject to any applicable confidentiality requirements, the Attorney General shall, on an annual basis, make publicly available the information received under subsection (a).
(c)
Reduction in funding
The Attorney General shall, for State or unit of local government which fails to comply with the requirement under subsection (a) for a fiscal year, reduce the amount that the State or local government would otherwise receive under each grant program described in subsection (a) in the following fiscal year by 100 percent.
(d)
Reallocation
Amounts not allocated to a State or unit of local government under subsection (c) shall be reallocated under each such grant program to States and units of local government that comply with the requirement under subsection (a).
(e)
Definition
The term
failed to make an appearance
means an action whereby any defendant has been charged with an offense before a court and who is participating in a pretrial release program for which funds received under a grant program referred to in subsection (a) are used as a condition of pretrial release—
(1)
does not appear for any court date regarding such charge;
(2)
does not appear for any one appointment with the pretrial services program; or
(3)
does not appear for any post-release appearance the court may require.
