1.
Maximum contribution limit to health savings account increased to amount of deductible and
out-of-pocket limitation
(a)
Self-Only coverage
Section 223(b)(2)(A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
$2,250
and inserting
the amount in effect under subsection (c)(2)(A)(ii)(I)
.
(b)
Family coverage
Section 223(b)(2)(B) of such Code is amended by striking
$4,500
and inserting
the amount in effect under subsection (c)(2)(A)(ii)(II)
.
(c)
Conforming amendments
Section 223(g)(1) of such Code is amended—
(1)
by striking
subsections (b)(2) and
both places it appears and inserting
subsection
, and
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
determined by
and all that follows through
calendar year 2003
.
and inserting
determined by substituting
calendar year 2003
for
calendar year 2016
in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2018.
2.
Allow both spouses to make catch-up contributions to the same health savings account
(a)
In general
Section 223(b)(5)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
(5)
Special rule for married individuals with family coverage
(A)
In general
In the case of individuals who are married to each other, if both spouses are eligible individuals and either spouse has family coverage under a high deductible health plan as of the first day of any month—
(i)
the limitation under paragraph (1) shall be applied by not taking into account any other high deductible health plan coverage of either spouse (and if such spouses both have family coverage under separate high deductible health plans, only one such coverage shall be taken into account),
(ii)
such limitation (after application of clause (i)) shall be reduced by the aggregate amount paid to Archer MSAs of such spouses for the taxable year, and
(iii)
such limitation (after application of clauses (i) and (ii)) shall be divided equally between such spouses unless they agree on a different division.
(B)
Treatment of additional contribution amounts
If both spouses referred to in subparagraph (A) have attained age 55 before the close of the taxable year, the limitation referred to in subparagraph (A)(iii) which is subject to division between the spouses shall include the additional contribution amounts determined under paragraph (3) for both spouses. In any other case, any additional contribution amount determined under paragraph (3) shall not be taken into account under subparagraph (A)(iii) and shall not be subject to division between the spouses.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2018.
3.
Special rule for certain medical expenses incurred before establishment of health savings account
(a)
In general
Section 223(d)(2)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
Treatment of certain medical expenses incurred before establishment of account
If a health savings account is established during the 60-day period beginning on the date that coverage of the account beneficiary under a high deductible health plan begins, then, solely for purposes of determining whether an amount paid is used for a qualified medical expense, such account shall be treated as having been established on the date that such coverage begins.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by this subsection shall apply with respect to coverage beginning after December 31, 2018.
