1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Mental Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp Act
.
2.
Mental Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp
(a)
In general
In order to afford a convenient way for members of the public to contribute to funding for mental illness research and suicide prevention programs within the National Institute of Mental Health, the United States Postal Service shall issue a semipostal stamp (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
Mental Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp
) in accordance with succeeding provisions of this section.
(b)
Cost and use
(1)
In general
The Mental Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp shall be offered at a cost equal to the cost of mailing a letter weighing 1 ounce or less at the nonautomation single-piece first-ounce letter rate, in effect at the time of purchase, plus a differential of not less than 15 percent.
(2)
Voluntary use
The use of any semipostal issued under this section shall be voluntary on the part of postal patrons.
(3)
Special rate
The special rate of postage of an individual stamp under this section shall be an amount that is evenly divisible by 5.
(c)
Other terms and conditions
The issuance and sale of the Mental Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp shall be governed by the provisions of section 416 of title 39, United States Code, and regulations issued under such section, subject to subsection (b) and the following:
(1)
Disposition of proceeds
(A)
In general
All amounts becoming available from the sale of the Mental Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp (as determined under section 416(d) of such title 39) shall be transferred to the National Institute of Mental Health, for the purpose described in subsection (a), through payments which shall be made at least twice a year, to fund the Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neuro­tech­nol­o­gies (BRAIN) Initiative.
(B)
Proceeds not to be offset
In accordance with section 416(d)(4) of such title 39, amounts becoming available from the sale of the Mental Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp (as so determined) shall not be taken into account in any decision relating to the level of appropriations or other Federal funding to be furnished in any year to the National Institute of Mental Health.
(2)
Duration
The Mental Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp shall be made available to the public for a period of at least 6 years, beginning no later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(3)
Limitation
The Mental Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp shall not be subject to, or taken into account for purposes of applying, any limitation under section 416(e)(1)(C) of such title 39.
(d)
Definition
For purposes of this Act, the term
semipostal stamp
refers to a stamp described in section 416(a)(1) of title 39, United States Code.
