1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Blockchain Records and Transactions Act of 2018
.
2.
Amendments to Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act
(a)
Exception to exemption from preemption for blockchain recognition
Section 102 of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (
15 U.S.C. 7002
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
(b)
Exception for blockchain recognition
Subsection (a) shall not apply to a State statute, regulation, or other rule of law that modifies, limits, or supersedes the provisions of section 101, unless such statute, regulation, or rule of law gives electronic records, electronic signatures, and smart contracts created, stored, or secured on or through a blockchain legal effect, validity, and enforceability, whether express or implied, that is equivalent to the legal effect, validity, and enforceability granted by this title and title II.
.
(b)
Definitions
(1)
Electronic
Paragraph (2) of section 106 of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (
15 U.S.C. 7006
) is amended by inserting
, including a blockchain
before the period at the end.
(2)
Electronic agent
Paragraph (3) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following:
Such term includes a smart contract.
.
(3)
Electronic record
Paragraph (4) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following:
Such term includes a blockchain and a smart contract or other record created, stored, or secured on or through a blockchain.
.
(4)
Electronic signature
Paragraph (5) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following:
Such term includes a signature created, stored, or secured on or through a blockchain.
.
(5)
Blockchain; smart contract
Such section is further amended—
(A)
by redesignating paragraphs (12) and (13) as paragraphs (14) and (15), respectively;
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (11) as paragraphs (2) through (12), respectively;
(C)
by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) the following:
(1)
Blockchain
The term
blockchain
means software that uses a distributed digital ledger of cryptographically signed transactions that are grouped into blocks, each of which—
(A)
is cryptographically linked to the previous block after validation and undergoing a consensus decision; and
(B)
when added as a new block, makes any older blocks more difficult to modify and is replicated across all copies of the ledger within the relevant network, with any conflicts in such blocks resolved automatically using established rules.
; and
(D)
by inserting after paragraph (12) (as so redesignated) the following:
(13)
Smart contract
The term
smart contract
means a computer program that reflects an agreement, in whole or in part, between two or more parties to execute transactions automatically based on the occurrence of agreed-upon events.
.
