1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Finding Innovative Lionfish Elimination Technologies Act of 2017
.
2.
Competitive grants to institutions of higher education and nonprofit research organizations to combat lionfish in the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Commerce, through the Cooperative Science and Education Program of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration conducted under
Public Law 86–685
(74 Stat. 733), the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (
16 U.S.C. 661
et seq.), and the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (section 101(b) of division A of
Public Law 105–277
; 112 Stat. 2681–50), shall award competitive grants to institutions of higher education and nonprofit research organizations to combat the species of lionfish Pterois miles and Pterois volitans, in the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico.
(b)
Eligibility
To be eligible for a grant under this section, an institution of higher education or nonprofit research organization must—
(1)
have established research infrastructure and proven capabilities of understanding the behavior of such species and the ecosystems of the Atlantic Ocean or the Gulf of Mexico; and
(2)
demonstrate a clear appreciation and understanding of the biological, chemical, and physical aspects of such ecosystem.
(c)
Encouragement of collaboration
In selecting projects for grants under this section, the Secretary of Commerce may encourage collaborative work with stakeholder groups having practical experience with gear, harvest techniques, and knowledge of local ecosystems.
(d)
Use
Amounts awarded as grants under this section shall be used—
(1)
for lionfish research and the impact of such species on the ecosystems of the Atlantic Ocean or the Gulf of Mexico;
(2)
to develop innovative technologies, including autonomous cameras and active acoustic systems appropriate for coastal environments, for detection of lionfish and determination of priority areas for removal of invasive species; and
(3)
to develop lionfish mitigation technologies, including traps and countermeasures.
(e)
Funding
Of amounts available for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 for the Coastal Ecosystem Resiliency Grant program of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, $1,500,000 may be used to carry out this section.
