1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Gulf Islands National Seashore Land Exchange Act of 2017
.
2.
Land exchange, Gulf Islands National Seashore, Jackson County, Mississippi
(a)
Land exchange authorized
The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) may convey to the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 5699 (in this section referred to as the
Post
) all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, consisting of approximately 1.542 acres, located within the Gulf Islands National Seashore in Jackson County, Mississippi, and identified as
NPS Exchange Area
on the map entitled
Gulf Islands National Seashore, Proposed Land Exchange with VFW, Davis Bayou Area—Jackson County, MS
, numbered 635/133309, and dated June 2016.
(b)
Land To be acquired
In exchange for the property described in subsection (a), the Post shall convey to the Secretary all right, title, and interest of the Post in and to a parcel of real property, consisting of approximately 2.161 acres, located in Jackson County, Mississippi, and identified as
VFW Exchange Area
on the map described in subsection (a).
(c)
Equal value exchange
(1)
In general
The values of the parcels of real property to be exchanged under this section shall be determined by an appraisal conducted—
(A)
by a qualified and independent appraiser; and
(B)
in accordance with nationally recognized appraisal standards.
(2)
Equalization
If the values of the parcels of real property to be exchanged under this section, as determined pursuant to paragraph (1), are not equal, the values shall be equalized through—
(A)
a cash payment; or
(B)
adjustments to the acreage of the parcels of real property to be exchanged.
(d)
Payment of costs of conveyance
(1)
Payment required
The Secretary shall require the Post to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out the land exchange under this section, including survey costs, costs related to environmental documentation, and any other administrative costs related to the land exchange. If amounts are collected from the Secretary in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the land exchange, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the Post.
(2)
Treatment of amounts received
Amounts received as reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the land exchange. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
(e)
Description of property
The exact acreage and legal description of property to be exchanged under this section shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary and the Post.
(f)
Conveyance agreement
The exchange of real property under this section shall be accomplished using a quit claim deed or other legal instrument and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Secretary and the Post, including such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(g)
Valid existing rights
The exchange authorized under this section shall be subject to valid existing rights.
(h)
Title approval
Title to the real property described in subsection (a) and the real property described in subsection (b) to be exchanged under this section shall be in a form acceptable to the Secretary.
(i)
Treatment of acquired land
Land and interests in land acquired by the United States under subsection (b) shall be administered by the Secretary as part of the Gulf Islands National Seashore.
(j)
Modification of boundary
Upon completion of the land exchange under this section, the Secretary shall modify the boundary of the Gulf Islands National Seashore to reflect such land exchange.
