1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicaid Health Homes for Opioid-Use-Disorder Medicaid Enrollees Encouraged Act
or the
Medicaid Health HOME Act
.
2.
Extension of enhanced FMAP for certain health homes for individuals with substance use disorders
Section 1945 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396w–4
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
subject to paragraph (4),
after
except that,
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Special rule relating to substance use disorder health homes
(A)
In general
In the case of a State with an SUD-focused State plan amendment approved by the Secretary on or after October 1, 2018, the Secretary may, at the request of the State, extend the application of the Federal medical assistance percentage described in paragraph (1) to payments for the provision of health home services to SUD-eligible individuals under such State plan amendment, in addition to the first 8 fiscal year quarters the State plan amendment is in effect, for the subsequent 2 fiscal year quarters that the State plan amendment is in effect. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting a State with a State plan amendment that is approved under this section and that is not an SUD-focused State plan amendment from additionally having approved on or after such date an SUD-focused State plan amendment under this section, including for purposes of application of this paragraph.
(B)
Report requirements
In the case of a State with an SUD-focused State plan amendment for which the application of the Federal medical assistance percentage has been extended under subparagraph (A), such State shall, at the end of the period of such State plan amendment, submit to the Secretary a report on the following, with respect to SUD-eligible individuals provided health home services under such State plan amendment:
(i)
The quality of health care provided to such individuals, with a focus on outcomes relevant to the recovery of each such individual.
(ii)
The access of such individuals to health care.
(iii)
The total expenditures of such individuals for health care.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the Secretary shall specify all applicable measures for
determining quality, access, and expenditures.
(C)
Best practices
Not later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary shall make publicly available on the Internet website of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services best practices for designing and implementing an SUD-focused State plan amendment, based on the experiences of States that have State plan amendments approved under this section that include SUD-eligible individuals.
(D)
Definitions
For purposes of this paragraph:
(i)
SUD-eligible individuals
The term
SUD-eligible individual
means, with respect to a State, an individual who satisfies all of the following:
(I)
The individual is an eligible individual with chronic conditions.
(II)
The individual is an individual with a substance use disorder.
(III)
The individual has not previously received health home services under any other State plan amendment approved for the State under this section by the Secretary.
(ii)
SUD-focused State plan amendment
The term
SUD-focused State plan amendment
means a State plan amendment under this section that is designed to provide health home services primarily to SUD-eligible individuals.
.
