1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Immigration Advisory Program Authorization Act of 2018
or the
IAP Authorization Act of 2018
.
2.
Authorization of the immigration advisory program
(a)
In general
Subtitle B of title IV of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 211
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
419.
Immigration advisory program
(a)
In general
There is authorized within U.S. Customs and Border Protection an immigration advisory program (in this section referred to as the
program
) for U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers, pursuant to an agreement with a host country, to assist air carriers and security employees at foreign airports with review of traveler information during the processing of flights bound for the United States.
(b)
Activities
In carrying out the program, U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers may—
(1)
be present during processing of flights bound for the United States;
(2)
assist air carriers and security employees with document examination and traveler security assessments;
(3)
provide relevant training to air carriers, security employees, and host-country authorities;
(4)
analyze electronic passenger information and passenger reservation data to identify potential threats;
(5)
engage air carriers and travelers to confirm potential terrorist watchlist matches;
(6)
make recommendations to air carriers to deny potentially inadmissable passengers boarding flights bound for the United States; and
(7)
conduct other activities to secure flights bound for the United States, as directed by the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(c)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
air carrier
and
foreign air carrier
have the meanings given such terms in section 40102 of title 49, United States Code.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Subsection (c) of section 411 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 211
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (18), by striking
and
after the semicolon at the end;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (19) as paragraph (20); and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (18) the following new paragraph:
(19)
carry out section 419, relating to the immigration advisory program; and
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 418 the following new item:
Sec. 419. Immigration advisory program.
.
