1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Accelerating Veterans Recovery Outdoors Act
.
2.
Inter-agency Task Force on Outdoor Recreation for Veterans
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a task force to be known as the
Task Force on Outdoor Recreation for Veterans
(in this Act referred to as the
Task Force
).
(b)
Composition
The Task Force shall be composed of the following members or their designees:
(1)
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(2)
The Secretary of the Interior.
(3)
The Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(4)
The Secretary of Agriculture.
(5)
The Secretary of Defense.
(6)
The Chief of the Army Corps of Engineers.
(7)
Any other members that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines to be appropriate.
(c)
Chairpersons
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of the Interior shall serve as co-chairpersons of the Task Force.
(d)
Duties
(1)
Task Force
The duties of the Task Force shall be—
(A)
to identify opportunities to formalize coordination between the Department of Veterans Affairs, public land agencies, and partner organizations regarding the use of Federal lands for medical treatment and therapy for veterans;
(B)
to identify barriers that exist to providing veterans with opportunities for medical treatment and therapy through the use of outdoor recreation on Federal lands; and
(C)
to develop recommendations to better facilitate the use of Federal lands for preventative care, medical treatment, and therapy for veterans.
(2)
Consultation
The Task Force shall carry out such responsibilities in consultation with appropriate veterans outdoor recreation groups.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Preliminary report
Not later than 180 days after the date on which the Task Force is established, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress a report on the preliminary findings of the Task Force.
(2)
Final report
Not later than one year after the submission of the preliminary report under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress a report on the findings of the Task Force, which shall include the recommendations developed under subsection (d)(1)(C).
(f)
Duration
The Task Force shall terminate on the date that is one year after the date of the submission of the final report under in subsection (e)(2).
(g)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
Federal lands
means—
(A)
lands that are under the administration of the Secretary of Agriculture; or
(B)
lands that are under the administration of the Secretary of Interior.
(2)
The term
veteran
has the meaning given such term in section 101(2) of title 38, United States Code.
