1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Claude Moore Farm Land Conveyance Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Friends
The term
Friends
means the Friends of the Claude Moore Colonial Farm at Turkey Run, Inc.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
3.
Land conveyance
(a)
Conveyance required
Subject to valid existing rights, if not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Friends submit to the Secretary in writing a request for the conveyance of the National Park Service land described in subsection (b)(1) for use as an 18th Century living history museum open to the public, the Secretary shall convey to the Friends, without consideration and all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcel of National Park Service land described in subsection (b)(1), including any improvements thereon.
(b)
Description of land
(1)
In general
The National Park Service land is the approximately 69-acres generally depicted as
Claude Moore Colonial Farm Land Assignment
on the map entitled
George Washington Memorial Parkway, Claude Moore Colonial Farm Land Assignment, McLean, Virginia
numbered 850_146239, and dated June 2018.
(2)
Map
The map referenced in paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate office of the National Park Service. The Secretary may correct minor errors in the map.
(c)
Costs of conveyance
As a condition of the conveyance under subsection (a), all costs associated with the conveyance under subsection (a) shall be paid by the Friends.
(d)
Time for completion of conveyance
Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Friends submit the written request described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall complete the conveyance under that subsection.
(e)
Reversion
If the land conveyed to the Friends under subsection (a) ceases to be used as an 18th Century living history museum open to the public, the land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.
