1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting and Improving Rural EMS Needs Act of 2018
or the
SIREN Act of 2018
.
2.
Reauthorization of rural emergency medical services training and equipment assistance program
Section 330J of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 254c–15
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
in rural areas
and inserting
in rural areas or to residents of rural areas
; and
(2)
by striking subsections (b) through (g) and inserting the following:
(b)
Eligibility
To be eligible to receive grant under this section, an entity shall be—
(1)
an emergency medical services agency operated by a local or tribal government (including fire-based and non-fire based); or
(2)
an emergency medical services agency that is described in
section 501(c)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
(c)
Use of funds
An entity shall use amounts received through a grant under subsection (a) to—
(1)
recruit emergency medical services personnel;
(2)
train emergency medical services personnel as appropriate to maintain licenses and certifications relevant to service in an emergency medical services agency described in subsection (b);
(3)
conduct courses that qualify graduates to serve in an emergency medical services agency described in subsection (b) in accordance with State and local requirements;
(4)
fund specific training to meet Federal or State licensing or certification requirements;
(5)
develop new ways to educate emergency health care providers through the use of technology-enhanced educational methods;
(6)
acquire emergency medical services equipment; and
(7)
acquire personal protective equipment for emergency medical services personnel as required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
emergency medical services
—
(A)
means resources used by a public or private nonprofit licensed entity to deliver medical care outside of a medical facility under emergency conditions that occur as a result of the condition of the patient; and
(B)
includes services delivered (either on a compensated or volunteer basis) by an emergency medical services provider or other provider that is licensed or certified by the State involved as an emergency medical technician, a paramedic, or an equivalent professional (as determined by the State).
(2)
The term
rural area
means—
(A)
a nonmetropolitan statistical area;
(B)
an area designated as a rural area by any law or regulation of a State; or
(C)
a rural census tract of a metropolitan statistical area (as determined under the most recent Goldsmith Modification, originally published in a notice of availability of funds in the Federal Register on February 27, 1992, 57 Fed. Reg. 6725).
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
(1)
In general
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each fiscal years 2018 through 2022.
(2)
Administrative costs
The Secretary may use not more than 10 percent of the amount appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) for a fiscal year for the administrative expenses of carrying out this section.
.
