1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sexual Trauma Response and Treatment Act
or the
START Act
.
2.
Pilot program on treatment of members of the Armed Forces for post-traumatic stress disorder related to military sexual trauma
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of using intensive outpatient programs to treat members of the Armed Forces suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder resulting from military sexual trauma, including treatment for substance abuse, depression, and other issues related to such conditions.
(b)
Discharge through partnerships
The pilot program authorized by subsection (a) shall be carried out through partnerships with public, private, and non-profit health care organizations and institutions that—
(1)
provide health care to members of the Armed Forces;
(2)
provide evidence-based treatment for psychological and neurological conditions that are common among members of the Armed Forces, including post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, substance abuse, and depression;
(3)
provide health care, support, and other benefits to family members of members of the Armed Forces; and
(4)
provide health care under the TRICARE program (as that term is defined in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code).
(c)
Program activities
Each organization or institution that participates in a partnership under the pilot program authorized by subsection (a) shall—
(1)
carry out intensive outpatient programs of short duration to treat members of the Armed Forces suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder resulting from military sexual trauma, including treatment for substance abuse, depression, and other issues related to such conditions;
(2)
use evidence-based and evidence-informed treatment strategies in carrying out such programs;
(3)
share clinical and outreach best practices with other organizations and institutions participating in the pilot program; and
(4)
annually assess outcomes for members of the Armed Forces individually and among the organizations and institutions participating in the pilot program with respect to the treatment of conditions described in paragraph (1).
(d)
Evaluation metrics
Before commencement of the pilot program, the Secretary shall establish metrics to be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot program and the activities under the pilot program.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Initial report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the pilot program authorized by subsection (a). The report shall include a description of the pilot program and such other matters on the pilot program as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2)
Final report
Not later than 180 days after the cessation of the pilot program under subsection (f), the Secretary shall submit to the committees of Congress referred to in paragraph (1) a report on the pilot program. The report shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the pilot program, including the partnership under the pilot program as described in subsection (b).
(B)
An assessment of the effectiveness of the pilot program and the activities under the pilot program.
(C)
Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the pilot program, including recommendations for extension or making permanent the authority for the pilot program.
(f)
Termination
The Secretary may not carry out the pilot program authorized by subsection (a) after the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
