1.
Virtual currency
(a)
In general
Part III of subchapter B of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 139F the following new section:
139G.
Gain from sale or exchange of virtual currency
(a)
In general
Gross income shall not include gain from the sale or exchange of virtual currency for other than cash or cash equivalents.
(b)
Limitation
(1)
In general
The amount of gain excluded from gross income under subsection (a) with respect to a sale or exchange shall not exceed $600.
(2)
Aggregation rule
For purposes of this subsection, all sales or exchanges which are part of the same transaction (or a series of related transactions) shall be treated as one sale or exchange.
(c)
Virtual currency
For purposes of this section, the term
virtual currency
means a digital representation of value that is used as a medium of exchange and is not otherwise currency under section 988.
(d)
Inflation adjustment
In the case of any taxable year beginning in a calendar year after 2018, the dollar amount in subsection (b) shall be increased by an amount equal to—
(1)
such dollar amount, multiplied by
(2)
the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which the taxable year begins, determined by substituting
calendar year 2017
for
calendar year 1992
in subparagraph (B) thereof.
Any increase determined under the preceding sentence shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of
$50.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for part III of subchapter B of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 139F the following new item:
Sec. 139G. Gain from sale or exchange of virtual currency.
.
(c)
Reporting of gains or losses
The Secretary shall issue regulations providing for information returns on virtual currency transactions for which gain or loss is recognized.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to transactions entered into after December 31, 2017.
