1.
Continuing appropriations for certain training for members of the National Guard and of the reserve
components of Armed Forces
(a)
Appropriations
Subject to subsection (c), there are hereby appropriated for fiscal year 2018, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for any period during which a Government shutdown is in effect, such sums as are necessary to provide pay and allowances to—
(1)
covered members for training duty—
(A)
in the course of performing—
(i)
active service;
(ii)
inactive-duty training; or
(iii)
Active Guard and Reserve duty under section 328 of title 32, United States Code;
(B)
that occurs during such period; and
(C)
that the Secretary concerned determines was scheduled before the beginning of such period; and
(2)
civilian personnel of the Department of Defense (and the Department of Homeland Security in the case of the Coast Guard) whom the Secretary concerned determines are providing support to covered members for purposes described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Exemption from furlough
Subject to subsection (c), any covered member and all civilian personnel described in subsection (a)(2) shall be exempt from any furlough order for any period during which a Government shutdown is in effect.
(c)
Termination
Appropriations and funds made available and exemptions from furlough granted pursuant to this section shall be available until whichever of the following occurs first:
(1)
The enactment into law of an appropriation (including a continuing appropriation) for any purpose for which amounts are made available in subsection (a).
(2)
The enactment into law of the applicable regular or continuing appropriations resolution or other Act without any appropriation for such purpose.
(3)
The end of the 30th consecutive day on which a Government shutdown is in effect.
(d)
Determination of Government shutdown
For purposes of this section, a Government shutdown shall be considered to be in effect if there is a lapse in appropriations for any purpose for which amounts are made available in subsection (a) as a result of a failure to enact a regular appropriations bill or continuing resolution.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered members
consists of—
(A)
members of the National Guard; and
(B)
members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
(2)
In this section, the term
Secretary concerned
means—
(A)
the Secretary of Defense with respect to matters concerning the Department of Defense; and
(B)
the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to matters concerning the Coast Guard.
(3)
The terms
Armed Forces
,
active service
, and
inactive-duty training
have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
(4)
The term
reserve components of the Armed Forces
means the components named in section 10101 of title 10, United States Code.
(5)
The term
National Guard
has the meaning given such term in section 101(3) of title 32, United States Code.
(6)
The term
furlough
has the meaning given such term in section 7511(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code.
