1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Community Counterterrorism Preparedness Act
.
2.
Major metropolitan area counterterrorism training and exercise grant program
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title XX of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 603
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2009.
Major metropolitan area counterterrorism training and exercise grant program
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
The Secretary, acting through the Administrator and the heads of other relevant components of the Department, shall carry out a program for emergency response providers to prevent, prepare for, and respond to emerging terrorist attack scenarios, including complex, coordinated terrorist attacks and active shooters, as determined by the Secretary, against major metropolitan areas.
(2)
Information
In establishing the program pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide to eligible applicants—
(A)
information, in an unclassified format, on emerging terrorist attack scenarios, including complex, coordinated terrorist attacks and active shooters, which grants under such program are intended to address; and
(B)
information on training and exercises best practices.
(b)
Eligible applicants
(1)
In general
Jurisdictions that receive, or that previously received, funding under section 2003 may apply for a grant under the program established pursuant to subsection (a).
(2)
Additional jurisdictions
Eligible applicants receiving funding under the program established pursuant to subsection (a) may include in activities funded by such program neighboring jurisdictions that would be likely to provide mutual aid in response to emerging terrorist attack scenarios, including complex, coordinated terrorist attacks and active shooters.
(c)
Permitted uses
The recipient of a grant under the program established pursuant to subsection (a) may use such grant to—
(1)
identify capability gaps related to preparing for, preventing, and responding to emerging terrorist attack scenarios, including complex, coordinated terrorist attacks and active shooters;
(2)
develop or update plans, annexes, and processes to address any capability gaps identified pursuant to paragraph (1); and
(3)
conduct training and exercises to address such identified gaps and validate capabilities.
(d)
Period of performance
The Administrator shall make funds provided under this section available for use by a recipient of a grant for a period of not fewer than 36 months.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated for grants under this section $39,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2008 the following new item:
Sec. 2009. Major metropolitan area counterterrorism training and exercise grant program.
.
