1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
President-Elect Release of Tax Return Act of 2017
.
2.
Requiring President-elect to submit copies of income tax returns to Committees of Congress
(a)
Submission
The President-elect shall submit a copy of each Federal income tax return filed by such individual with the Internal Revenue Service for the 4 most recent taxable years to—
(1)
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
(b)
Permitted redactions
The President-elect may redact from the copy of any Federal income tax return submitted under this section any of the following:
(1)
Any Social Security number of any individual.
(2)
Any taxpayer identification number of any person.
(3)
Any account identification number.
(4)
Any name of any dependent of the taxpayer.
(c)
Deadline
The President-elect shall submit the information required under this section not later than the date of the meeting of the Senate and House of Representatives held pursuant to section 15 of title 3, United States Code, to count the electoral votes for President and Vice President.
3.
Alternative disclosure of returns by Secretary of the Treasury; permitting disclosure of
information by Committees
Section 6103(l)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(23)
Disclosure of tax returns of president-elect candidates
(A)
Disclosure to Committees of Congress if candidate does not meet disclosure requirements
If the President-elect does not submit a copy of a Federal income tax return to the chairs and ranking minority members of the Committees on House Administration of the House of Representatives and Rules and Administration of the Senate, as required under section 2 of the President-Elect Release of Tax Return Act of 2017, by the date specified in subsection (c) of such section (or if any such return so submitted is incomplete or inaccurate), the Secretary shall disclose such return to the chairs and ranking minority members of such Committees not later than 10 days after such date.
(B)
Redactions
The Secretary shall redact the information described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (b) of section 2 of the President-Elect Release of Tax Return Act of 2017 with respect to a Federal income tax return of the President-elect before disclosing the return under subparagraph (A).
(C)
Public disclosure of information
The chairs and ranking minority members of the Committees referred to in subparagraph (A) may disclose any information contained in a return submitted by the President-elect under section 2 of the President-Elect Release of Tax Return Act of 2017 or disclosed by the Secretary under subparagraph (A).
.
