1.
Quindaro Townsite National Historic Landmark Act
(a)
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Quindaro Townsite National Historic Landmark Act
.
(b)
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
The town of Quindaro was founded in 1857, in what was then the Territory of Kansas, with the specific intent of aiding the Free-State movement in the struggle over whether to admit Kansas to the Union as a free State or a slave State. As a result, Quindaro played an important role in both the history of Kansas and our Nation’s broader debate over slavery.
(2)
Quindaro was a key site during the Bleeding Kansas conflict, serving as a safe port of entry into Kansas on the Missouri River for those opposed to slavery.
(3)
The town of Quindaro also acted as an important piece of the Underground Railroad, allowing runaway slaves to escape to freedom in Kansas.
(4)
Since the Quindaro Townsite’s first excavation, it has yielded a wealth of important artifacts that have contributed to our understanding of the town and its place in history. The area maintains a high level of archaeological integrity, with the potential for additional discoveries at the site in the future.
(5)
Local government, private entities, and individual stakeholders in the area have invested time and resources to further the preservation of both Quindaro’s physical remains and its historical and cultural legacy.
(6)
The Quindaro Townsite fits the National Historic Landmark designation’s requirement of possessing exceptional value in illustrating the history of the United States, as well as providing the potential to yield new information about our past.
(c)
Designation
The Quindaro Townsite in Kansas City, Kansas, as listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is hereby designated as the Quindaro Townsite National Historic Landmark.
(d)
Administration
Nothing in this section shall affect the administration of the Quindaro Townsite by Kansas City or the State of Kansas.
(e)
Cooperative agreements
The Secretary, in consultation with the State of Kansas, Kansas City, Kansas, and affected subdivisions, may enter into cooperative agreements with appropriate public or private entities, for the purposes of protecting historic resources at Quindaro Townsite and providing educational and interpretive facilities and programs for the public.
(f)
Technical and financial assistance
The Secretary may provide technical and financial assistance to any entity with which the Secretary has entered into a cooperative agreement under subsection (e).
(g)
No effect on actions of property owners
Designation of the Quindaro Townsite as a National Historic Landmark shall not prohibit any actions which may otherwise be taken by any property owners, including the owners of the Quindaro Townsite National Historic Landmark, with respect to their property.
