Executive Order  —Transferring Responsibility for Background Investigations to  
 
  (1st Term)

By the power vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Findings and Purpose

. Section 925 of   for   (10 U.S.C. 1564 note) provides that the Secretary of   has the authority to conduct security, suitability, and credentialing background investigations for   personnel and requires the Secretary, in consultation with the Director of  , to provide for a phased transition to   of the conduct of such investigations conducted by   (NBIB). Implementing that legislative mandate while retaining the benefit of economies of scale in addressing   background investigations workload, avoiding unnecessary risk, promoting the ongoing alignment of efforts with respect to vetting Federal employees and contractors, and facilitating needed reforms in this critical area requires that the primary responsibility for conducting background investigations Government-wide be transferred from   to  .

 . 2

.

Transfer or  ; Further Amendments to Executive Order  , as amended

. (a) The heading of section 2.6 of Executive Order  , as amended, (Executive Order  ) is revised to read as follows: "

Roles and Responsibilities of  ,  , and  ."

(b) Section 2.6(a) of Executive Order   is further amended by inserting ", until such functions are transferred or delegated, as applicable, to  " before the colon, by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (9) as paragraphs (i) through (ix), by striking the period at the end of newly designated paragraph (ix) and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon, and by inserting, after newly designated paragraph (ix), an undesignated paragraph to read as follows: "except that throughout the transition period ending on or before  , as described in sections 2.6(d)(vi) and 2.6(e)(viii) of this order,   and its personnel may continue to perform background investigations for  ."

(c) Section 2.6(b) of Executive Order   is revised by adding paragraphs (i) through (xi) to read as follows:

"(i) Pursuant to sections 113 and 191 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of   shall rename   ( ) as   ( ). Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of   and as further described in subsections (b)(ii) through (b)(iv) of this section, the   shall serve as the primary Federal entity for conducting background investigations for  . The   shall, as a continuation of the former  , serve as the primary   component for   and shall execute responsibilities relating to continuous vetting, insider threat programs, and any other responsibilities assigned to it by the Secretary of   consistent with law. The Secretary of   may rename the   and reassign any of its responsibilities to   component or components, provided, however, that the Secretary of   shall consult with  ,  , and   before renaming the   or reassigning the responsibilities specified in section 2.6(b)(ii) and (iv) of this order to   component."

"(ii) Pursuant to and consistent with section 3001(c) of   of   (50 U.S.C. 3341(c)), sections 925(a)(1) and (d)(2) of   for   (10 U.S.C. 1564 note), and in accordance with subsection (d) of this section,  , the   shall serve as the primary entity for conducting effective, efficient, and secure background investigations for   for determining whether covered individuals are or continue to be eligible for access to classified information or eligible to hold a sensitive position."

"(iii) Pursuant to and consistent with sections 925(a)(1) and (d)(2) of   for   (10 U.S.C. 1564 note) and in accordance with subsection (d) of this section,  , the   shall serve as the primary entity for conducting effective, efficient, and secure background investigations for determining the suitability or, for employees in positions not subject to suitability, fitness for   employment; fitness to perform work for or on behalf of   as a contractor; fitness to work as a nonappropriated fund employee, as defined in Executive Order   of  , as amended; and authorization to be issued a Federal credential for logical and physical access to facilities or information systems controlled by  ."

"(iv) Consistent with and following an explicit delegation from the Director of   pursuant to section   of title 5, United States Code, and consistent with subsection (e) of this section,  , the   shall serve as the primary entity for conducting effective, efficient, and secure background investigations for   not described in subsections (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this section, for determining suitability or, for employees in positions not subject to suitability, fitness for Government employment; fitness to perform work for or on behalf of the   as a contractor; fitness to work as a nonappropriated fund employee, as defined in Executive Order   of  , as amended; and authorization to be issued a Federal credential for logical and physical access to federally controlled facilities or information systems."

"(v) The   shall conduct other background investigations as authorized by law, designation, rule, regulation, or Executive Order."

"(vi) The   shall provide information to the   established by section 2.4 of this order regarding matters of performance, including timeliness and continuous improvement, capacity, information technology modernization, and other relevant aspects of its operations. The   shall be subject to the oversight of the   Agent, including implementation of   Agent policies, procedures, guidance, and instructions, in conducting investigations for eligibility to access classified information or to hold a sensitive position. The  , through the Secretary of  , also shall be subject to the oversight of the Suitability and   Agent, including implementation of     Agent policies, procedures, guidance, and instructions, and applicable   regulations, in conducting investigations of suitability or fitness and eligibility for logical and physical access."

"(vii) The Secretary of   shall design, develop, deploy, operate, secure, defend, and continuously update and modernize, as necessary, information technology systems that support all personnel vetting processes conducted by  . Design and operation of these information technology systems shall comply with applicable information technology standards and, to the extent practicable, ensure security and interoperability with other personnel vetting or related information technology systems. The Secretary of   shall maintain and safeguard the information relevant to the granting, denial, or revocation of eligibility for access to classified information, or eligibility for a sensitive position, or relevant to suitability, fitness, or credentialing determinations pertaining to military, civilian, or Government contractor personnel. The Secretary of   shall operate the database in the information technology systems containing appropriate data relevant to the granting, denial, or revocation of eligibility for access to classified information or eligibility for a sensitive position pertaining to military, civilian, or Government contractor personnel, see section 3341(e) of title 50, United States Code, consistent with, as applicable, an explicit delegation from the Director of   pursuant to section   of title 5, United States Code."

"(viii) The Secretary of   shall, by  , execute a written agreement with the Director of   designating the appropriate support functions to be transferred as part of the investigative mission, consistent with section 925(d)(2)(B) of   for   (10 U.S.C. 1564 note), and setting forth expectations for the transition period, including for detailing personnel, funding background investigations, using and safeguarding information technology, managing facilities and property, contracting, administrative support, records access, and addressing any claims."

"(ix) The Secretary of   shall, upon finalization of the agreement described in paragraph (viii) of this subsection and in accordance with its terms:

(A) establish   within  , which will include personnel from   and other stakeholder agencies, as appropriate; and

(B) commence efforts to receive transferred or delegated functions and, as appropriate, associated   operations, resources, and personnel, to the  ."

"(x) The Secretary of   shall:

(A)  , and   thereafter until the transfer is complete, provide a report to the President, in coordination with the Director of   and through the Director of  , regarding the status of the transfer, including any resource or funding shortfall and gaps in authority;

(B) take necessary actions to enable   to receive any resources, including personnel, made available as a result of subsection (d) of this section; and

(C) notify the President upon completion of the transition period."

"(xi) In the event the agreement described in paragraph (viii) of this subsection and section 2.6(e)(v) of this order is not executed by  , beginning on such date, the Secretary of   shall begin to take necessary actions to begin execution of paragraph (ix) until the agreement described in paragraph (viii) of this subsection is executed, at which time the Secretary of   shall ensure actions subject to such agreement under paragraph (ix) of this subsection are executed in accordance with its terms."

(d) Section 2.6(c) of Executive Order   is revised to read as follows:

"(c) Existing delegations of authority to conduct background investigations made by the Director of  , as the Suitability and   Agent or as otherwise authorized by statute or  , to any agency relating to suitability, fitness, or credentialing determinations, existing designations made by the Director of  , as the   Agent or as otherwise authorized by statute or  , relating to investigating persons who are proposed for access to classified information or for eligibility to hold a sensitive position, or existing delegations of authority to conduct background investigations made by the President to any other agency through any Executive Order shall remain in effect. Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit the authority of any agency to conduct its own background investigations when specifically authorized or directed to do so by statute or any preexisting delegation from the President."

(e) New sections 2.6(d), 2.6(e), and 2.6(f) are added to Executive Order   to read as follows:

"(d) Consistent with section 3503 of title 5, United States Code, subchapter I of chapter 83 of title 10, United States Code, and section 925(d)(1) of   for   (10 U.S.C. 1564 note), the Secretary of   and the Director of  , in consultation with the Director of   and the   Agent, shall, consistent with applicable law, provide for the transfer of the functions described in sections 2.6(b)(ii) and (iii) of this order from   to  , and any appropriate  -associated personnel and resources, including infrastructure and the investigation-related support functions. The transfer shall commence  , and shall:

(i) be executed with the assistance of   established pursuant to paragraph (b)(ix) of this section, which shall, in providing such assistance, consider input from other stakeholder agencies, as appropriate; (ii) be conducted in accordance with a risk management approach that is consistent with  ;

(iii) include any appropriate funds that the Secretary of   and the Director of  , with the concurrence of the Director of  , determine to be available and necessary to finance and discharge the functions transferred;

(iv) be consistent with the transition from legacy information technology as required by subsection (b)(vii) of this section;

(v) build upon the implementation plan developed pursuant to section 951(a)(1) of   for   (Public Law 114-328), which is being implemented pursuant to section 925 of   for   (10 U.S.C. 1564 note); and

(vi) permit   to conduct background investigations for  , as necessary, until  ."

"(e) The Director of   shall:

(i)  , take any steps necessary to make effective the delegation, pursuant to section 1104(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, of the functions described in subsection (b)(iv) of this section;

(ii) promptly establish appropriate performance standards and oversight as required by section 1104(b) of title 5, United States Code;

(iii) work in coordination with the Secretary of   to reassign appropriate resources, including personnel, to the   and provide all necessary and appropriate support to the   in a timely manner to enable it to fulfill its responsibilities under this order;

(iv)  , provide the Secretary of   with a complete inventory of   personnel, resources, and assets, and other   personnel and resources that primarily support  ;

(v)  , execute a written agreement with the Secretary of   designating the appropriate support functions to be transferred as part of the investigative mission, consistent with section 925(d)(2)(B) of   for   (10 U.S.C. 1564 note), as described in section 2.6(b)(viii) of this order;

(vi) immediately upon the finalization of the agreement described in paragraph (v) of this subsection and section 2.6(b)(viii) of this order, commence efforts to transition transferred or delegated functions and, as appropriate, associated   authorities, operations, resources, and personnel, to the  ;

(vii) during the transition period, coordinate with   regarding any decisions concerning  's personnel structure, finances, contracts, or organization to the extent provided in the written agreement described by paragraph (b)(viii) of this section;

(viii)  , complete the transfer of all designated administrative and operational functions to   and revoke any applicable delegation or designation to NBIB of investigative or other authority; and

(ix) in the event the agreement described in paragraph (v) of this subsection and section 2.6(b)(viii) of this order is not executed by  , beginning on such date, the Director of   shall begin to take necessary actions to begin execution of paragraphs (iii) through (viii) of this subsection until the agreement described in paragraph (v) of this subsection and section 2.6(b)(viii) of this order is executed, at which time the Director of   shall ensure actions subject to such agreement under paragraphs (iii) through (viii) of this subsection are executed in accordance with its terms."

"(f) The Director of   shall:

(i) facilitate an effective transfer of functions, including personnel and resources;

(ii) support   efforts to establish a single, centralized funding capability for its background investigations, as required by section 925(e)(1) of   for   (10 U.S.C. 1564 note);

(iii) mediate any disagreements between the Secretary of   and the Director of   that may arise during or outside of the transition period and facilitate resolution of the conflicting positions; and

(iv) develop, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Director of  , an appropriate funding plan for the activities undertaken pursuant to this order."

(f) Sections 2.4(b) and 2.5(e)(vi) of Executive Order   are further amended by striking "National Background Investigations Bureau" each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof "Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency."

Sec. 3

.

Amendment to Executive Order   of  , as amended

.

(a)

Determinations

. Pursuant to section 7103(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code, the  , previously known as the  , is hereby determined to have as a primary function intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work. It is further determined that chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, cannot be applied to the   in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations.

(b)

Exclusion

. Executive Order   of  , as amended, is further amended by revising section 1-208 to read as follows: "1-208.  ,  ."

 . 4

.

Conforming References to   and  

. Any reference to   or NBIB in any Executive Order or other Presidential document that is in effect on   before the date of this order shall be deemed or construed to be a reference to   or any other entity that the Secretary of  

names, consistent with section 2(b)(i) of Executive Order  , and agencies whose regulations, rules, or other documents reference   or   shall revise any such respective regulations, rules, or other documents as soon as practicable to update them for consistency with this order.

 . 5

.

Review of Vetting Policies

. No later than July 24,  , the   identified in section 2.4(b) of Executive Order   shall review the laws, regulations, Executive Orders, and guidance relating to   vetting of Federal employees and contractors and shall submit to the President, through  , a report recommending any appropriate legislative, regulatory, or policy changes, including any such changes to civil service regulations or policies, Executive Order   or Executive Order  .

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
