Executive Order  — 
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and in furtherance of Proclamation 9994 of March 13, 2020 (Declaring a National Emergency Concerning the Novel Coronavirus Disease (COVID–19)  ), which declared a national emergency by reason of the threat that the novel (new) coronavirus known as SARS–CoV–2 poses to our  's healthcare systems, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1. Emergency Authority.

(a) To provide additional authority to the Secretary of the   (Secretary) to respond to the national emergency declared by  , the authority at section 1318(a) of title 19, United States Code, to extend during the continuance of such emergency the time prescribed therein for the performance of any act is invoked and made available, according to its terms, to the Secretary.

(b) The Secretary shall consider taking appropriate action under section 1318(a) of title 19, United States Code, to temporarily extend deadlines, for importers suffering significant financial hardship because of COVID–19, for the estimated payments described therein, other than those assessed pursuant to sections  ,  ,  ,  , and 2411 of title 19, United States Code.

(c) The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of   or his designee before exercising, as invoked and made available under this order, any of the authority set forth in section 1318(a) of title 19, United States Code.

 . 2. General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 

NOTE: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on   and published in   on  .
