Executive Order  —Review of Designations Under the Antiquities Act
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in recognition of the importance of the  's wealth of natural resources to   workers and the   economy, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Designations of national monuments under the Antiquities Act of  , recently recodified at sections   to 320303 of title  , United States Code (the "Antiquities Act" or "Act"), have a substantial impact on the management of   lands and the use and enjoyment of neighboring lands. Such designations are a means of stewarding  's natural resources, protecting  's natural beauty, and preserving  's historic places. Monument designations that result from a lack of public outreach and proper coordination with  , tribal, and local officials and other relevant stakeholders may also create barriers to achieving energy independence, restrict public access to and use of   lands, burden  , tribal, and local governments, and otherwise curtail economic growth. Designations should be made in accordance with the requirements and original objectives of the Act and appropriately balance the protection of landmarks, structures, and objects against the appropriate use of   lands and the effects on surrounding lands and communities.

 . 2

.

Review of National Monument Designations

. (a) The Secretary of the   (Secretary) shall conduct a review of all Presidential designations or expansions of designations under the Antiquities Act made since  , where the designation covers more than 100,000 acres, where the designation after expansion covers more than 100,000 acres, or where the Secretary determines that the designation or expansion was made without adequate public outreach and coordination with relevant stakeholders, to determine whether each designation or expansion conforms to the policy set forth in section 1 of this order. In making those determinations, the Secretary shall consider:

(i) the requirements and original objectives of the Act, including the  's requirement that reservations of land not exceed "the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected";

(ii) whether designated lands are appropriately classified under the Act as "historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, [

or

] other objects of historic or scientific interest";

(iii) the effects of a designation on the available uses of designated Federal lands, including consideration of the multiple-use policy of section 102(a)(7) of   (43 U.S.C. 1701(a)(7)), as well as the effects on the available uses of   lands beyond the monument boundaries;

(iv) the effects of a designation on the use and enjoyment of   lands within or beyond monument boundaries;

(v) concerns of  , tribal, and local governments affected by a designation, including the economic development and fiscal condition of affected  , tribes, and localities;

(vi) the availability of Federal resources to properly manage designated areas; and (vii) such other factors as the Secretary deems appropriate.

(b) In conducting the review described in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall consult and coordinate with, as appropriate, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of any other executive departments or agencies concerned with areas designated under the Act.

(c) In conducting the review described in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall, as appropriate, consult and coordinate with the Governors of States affected by monument designations or other relevant officials of affected  , tribal, and local governments.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary shall provide an interim report to the President, through the Director of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, and the Chairman of  , summarizing the findings of the review described in subsection (a) of this section with respect to Proclamation 9558 of   (Establishment of the Bears Ears National Monument), and such other designations as the Secretary determines to be appropriate for inclusion in the interim report. For those designations, the interim report shall include recommendations for such Presidential actions, legislative proposals, or other actions consistent with law as the Secretary may consider appropriate to carry out the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

(e) Within   of this order, the Secretary shall provide a final report to the President, through the Director of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, and the Chairman of  , summarizing the findings of the review described in subsection (a) of this section. The final report shall include recommendations for such Presidential actions, legislative proposals, or other actions consistent with law as the Secretary may consider appropriate to carry out the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
