Executive Order 13794—Establishment of  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to promote the secure, efficient, and economical use of information technology to achieve its missions.   deserve better digital services from their Government. To effectuate this policy,   must transform and modernize its information technology and how it uses and delivers digital services.

 . 2

.

Purpose

. To promote the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, this order establishes   ( ).

 . 3

.

ATC Establishment and Membership

. The   is hereby established, with the following members:

(a) The President, who shall serve as Chairman;

(b) The Vice President;

(c) The Secretary of  ;

(d) The Secretary of  ;

(e) The Secretary of  ;

(f) The Director of  ;

(g) The Director of   (OMB);

(h) The Director of  ;

(i) The   Chief Technology Officer;

(j)  ;

(k) The Senior Advisor to the President;

(l) The Assistant to the President for  ;

(m) The Assistant to the President for Strategic Initiatives;

(n) The Assistant to the President for  ;

(o) The Assistant to the President for   and  ;

(p) The Administrator of  ;

(q) The Administrator of   (Federal Chief Information Officer);

(r) The Commissioner of  ; and

(s) The Director of   (Director).

 . 4

.

Additional Invitees

. The Director may invite the heads of agencies with key service delivery programs to attend meetings of the   on a rotating basis and may also invite the heads of those service delivery programs to attend. The President, or upon his direction, the Director, may also invite other officials of executive departments, agencies, and offices to attend meetings of the   from time to time.

 . 5

.

ATC Meetings

. The President, or upon his direction, the Director, may convene meetings of the  . The President shall preside over the meetings. In the President's absence the Vice President shall preside, and in the Vice President's absence the Director shall preside.

 . 6

.

ATC Functions

. (a) The principal functions of the   shall be to:

(i) coordinate the vision, strategy, and direction for   use of information technology and the delivery of services through information technology;

(ii) coordinate advice to the President related to policy decisions and processes regarding   use of information technology and the delivery of services through information technology; and

(iii) work to ensure that these decisions and processes are consistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order and that the policy is being effectively implemented.

(b) The functions of the  , as specified in subsection (a) of this section, shall not extend to any national security system, as defined in section 3552(b)(6) of title  , United States Code.

(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the authority of any agency or of OMB, including the authority of OMB to monitor implementation of Administration policies and programs and to develop and implement management policies for all agencies.

 . 7

.

ATC Administration

. (a) The   may function through ad hoc committees, task forces, or interagency groups, each to be chaired by the Director or such official as the Director may, from time to time, designate. Such groups shall include a senior interagency forum for considering policy issues related to information technology, and a deputies committee to review and monitor the work of the   interagency forum and to ensure that issues brought before the   have been properly analyzed and prepared for decision.

(b) The   shall have a Director, who shall be an employee of   of the President designated by the President.

(c) All agencies are encouraged to cooperate with the   and to provide such assistance, information, and advice to the   as the   may request, to the extent permitted by law.

(d) Consistent with the protection of sources and methods, the Director of   is encouraged to provide access to classified information on cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities, and mitigation procedures to the   in order to facilitate the  's activities.

 . 8

.

Termination

. This order, and the   established hereunder, shall terminate on  .

 . 9

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof;

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals; or

(iii) the provisions of  , entitled "Establishing the Director of White House Information Technology and  ."

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on   and released by   Secretary on  .
