Executive Order  —A Federal Strategy To Ensure Secure and Reliable Supplies of Critical Minerals
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Findings.

  is heavily reliant on imports of certain mineral commodities that are vital to the  's security and economic prosperity. This dependency of   on foreign sources creates a strategic vulnerability for both its economy and military to adverse foreign government action, natural disaster, and other events that can disrupt supply of these key minerals. Despite the presence of significant deposits of some of these minerals across  , our miners and producers are currently limited by a lack of comprehensive, machine-readable data concerning topographical, geological, and geophysical surveys; permitting delays; and the potential for protracted litigation regarding permits that are issued. An increase in private-sector domestic exploration, production, recycling, and reprocessing of critical minerals, and support for efforts to identify more commonly available technological alternatives to these minerals, will reduce our dependence on imports, preserve our leadership in technological innovation, support job creation, improve our national security and balance of trade, and enhance the technological superiority and readiness of our  , which are among the  's most significant consumers of critical minerals.

 . 2. Definition.

(a) A "critical mineral" is a mineral identified by the Secretary of the   pursuant to subsection (b) of this section to be (i) a non-fuel mineral or mineral material essential to the economic and national security of  , (ii) the supply chain of which is vulnerable to disruption, and (iii) that serves an essential function in the manufacturing of a product, the absence of which would have significant consequences for our economy or our national security.

(b) The Secretary of the  , in coordination with the Secretary of   and in consultation with the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies), shall publish a list of critical minerals in   not   after the date of this order, and disseminate such list to the appropriate agencies.

 . 3. Policy.

It shall be the policy of   to reduce the  's vulnerability to disruptions in the supply of critical minerals, which constitutes a strategic vulnerability for the security and prosperity of  .   will further this policy for the benefit of the   people and in a safe and environmentally responsible manner, by:

(a) identifying new sources of critical minerals;

(b) increasing activity at all levels of the supply chain, including exploration, mining, concentration, separation, alloying, recycling, and reprocessing critical minerals;

(c) ensuring that our miners and producers have electronic access to the most advanced topographic, geologic, and geophysical data within   territory to the extent permitted by law and subject to appropriate limitations for purposes of privacy and security, including appropriate limitations to protect critical infrastructure data such as those related to national security areas; and

(d) streamlining leasing and permitting processes to expedite exploration, production, processing, reprocessing, recycling, and domestic refining of critical minerals.

 . 4. Implementation.

(a) Within   of the date that the Secretary of the   publishes a list of critical minerals under section 2 of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with  ,  , and  , and  , shall submit a report to the President through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for  , the Director of  , and the Director of  . The report shall include:

(i) a strategy to reduce the  's reliance on critical minerals;

(ii) an assessment of progress toward developing critical minerals recycling and reprocessing technologies, and technological alternatives to critical minerals;

(iii) options for accessing and developing critical minerals through investment and trade with our allies and partners;

(iv) a plan to improve the topographic, geologic, and geophysical mapping of   and make the resulting data and   electronically accessible, to the extent permitted by law and subject to appropriate limitations for purposes of privacy and security, to support private sector mineral exploration of critical minerals; and

(v) recommendations to streamline permitting and review processes related to developing leases; enhancing access to critical mineral resources; and increasing discovery, production, and domestic refining of critical minerals.

(b) Agencies shall implement subsection (a) of this section in a manner consistent with, and when possible complementary to, implementation of Executive Order   of   (  and Controlling Regulatory Costs), Executive Order   ( ), Executive Order   of   (Establishing Discipline and Accountability in the Environmental Review and Permitting Process for Infrastructure Projects), and Executive Order   ( ).

 . 5.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof;

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals; or

(iii) existing treaties or international agreements relating to mineral production, imports, or exports.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
