Executive Order  —  in  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy and Principles

.  ) promises to drive growth of   economy, enhance our economic and national security, and improve our quality of life.   is the world leader in   research and development (R&D) and deployment. Continued   leadership in   is of paramount importance to maintaining the economic and national security of   and to shaping the global evolution of   in a manner consistent with our  's values, policies, and priorities.   plays an important role in facilitating  , promoting the trust of the   people in the development and deployment of  -related technologies, training a workforce capable of using   in their occupations, and protecting the   AI technology base from attempted acquisition by strategic competitors and adversarial nations.   leadership in   requires a concerted effort to promote advancements in technology and innovation, while protecting   technology, economic and national security, civil liberties, privacy, and   values and enhancing international and industry collaboration with foreign partners and allies. It is the policy of   to sustain and enhance the scientific, technological, and economic leadership position of   in   R&D and deployment through a coordinated   strategy,   (Initiative), guided by five principles:

(a)   must drive technological breakthroughs in   across  , industry, and academia in order to promote scientific discovery, economic competitiveness, and national security.

(b)   must drive development of appropriate technical standards and reduce barriers to the safe testing and deployment of   technologies in order to enable the creation of new  -related industries and the adoption of   by  's industries.

(c)   must train current and future generations of   workers with the skills to develop and apply AI technologies to prepare them for  's economy and jobs of the future.

(d)   must foster public trust and confidence in   technologies and protect civil liberties, privacy, and   values in their application in order to fully realize the potential of   technologies for the   people.

(e)   must promote an international environment that supports   research and innovation and opens markets for   industries, while protecting our technological advantage in   and protecting our critical AI technologies from acquisition by strategic competitors and adversarial nations.

 . 2

.

 

.   will affect the missions of nearly all executive departments and agencies (agencies). Agencies determined to be implementing agencies pursuant to section 3 of this order shall pursue six strategic objectives in furtherance of both promoting and protecting   advancements in  : (a) Promote sustained investment in   R&D in collaboration with industry, academia, international partners and allies, and other non-Federal entities to generate technological breakthroughs in   and related technologies and to rapidly transition those breakthroughs into capabilities that contribute to our economic and national security.

(b) Enhance access to high-quality and fully traceable Federal data, models, and computing resources to increase the value of such resources for   R&D, while maintaining safety, security, privacy, and confidentiality protections consistent with applicable laws and policies.

(c) Reduce barriers to the use of   technologies to promote their innovative application while protecting   technology, economic and national security, civil liberties, privacy, and values.

(d) Ensure that technical standards minimize vulnerability to attacks from malicious actors and reflect Federal priorities for innovation, public trust, and public confidence in systems that use   technologies; and develop international standards to promote and protect those priorities.

(e) Train the next generation of   AI researchers and users through apprenticeships; skills programs; and education in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), with an emphasis on computer science, to ensure that   workers, including Federal workers, are capable of taking full advantage of the opportunities of  .

(f) Develop and implement an action plan, in accordance with   of   (Protecting the United States Advantage in   and Related Critical Technologies) (the  ) to protect the advantage of   in   and technology critical to   economic and national security interests against strategic competitors and foreign adversaries.

 . 3

.

Roles and Responsibilities

. The Initiative shall be coordinated through   ( )  ). Actions shall be implemented by agencies that conduct foundational   R&D, develop and deploy applications of   technologies, provide educational grants, and regulate and provide guidance for applications of   technologies, as determined by the co-chairs of   (implementing agencies).

 . 4

.

Federal Investment in AI Research and Development

.

(a) Heads of implementing agencies that also perform or fund R&D (AI R&D agencies), shall consider   as an agency R&D priority, as appropriate to their respective agencies' missions, consistent with applicable law and in accordance with   (OMB) and   ( ) R&D priorities memoranda. Heads of such agencies shall take this priority into account when developing budget proposals and planning for the use of funds in   and in  . Heads of these agencies shall also consider appropriate administrative actions to increase focus on   for  .

(b) Heads of AI R&D agencies shall budget an amount for   R&D that is appropriate for this prioritization.

(i) Following the submission of the President's   request to the  , heads of such agencies shall communicate plans for achieving this prioritization to the   Director and the   Director    NITRD) Program.

(ii) Within   of the enactment of appropriations for their respective agencies, heads of such agencies shall identify  , consistent with applicable law, the programs to which the AI R&D priority will apply and estimate the total amount of such funds that will be spent on each such program. This information shall be communicated to the   Director and   Director    .

(c) To the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, heads of   R&D agencies shall explore opportunities for collaboration with non-Federal entities, including: the private sector; academia; non-profit organizations;  , local, tribal, and territorial governments; and foreign partners and allies, so all collaborators can benefit from each other's investment and expertise in   R&D.

Sec. 5

.

Data and  .

(a) Heads of all agencies shall review their   data and models to identify opportunities to increase access and use by the greater non-Federal AI research community in a manner that benefits that community, while protecting safety, security, privacy, and confidentiality. Specifically, agencies shall improve data and model inventory documentation to enable discovery and usability, and shall prioritize improvements to access and quality of   data and models based on the   research community's user feedback.

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the OMB Director shall publish a notice in  

inviting the public to identify additional requests for access or quality improvements for Federal data and models that would improve AI R&D and testing. Additionally, within   of the date of this order, OMB, in conjunction with  , shall investigate barriers to access or quality limitations of Federal data and models that impede AI R&D and testing. Collectively, these actions by   will help to identify datasets that will facilitate   and testing.

(ii) Within   of this order, OMB, including through its interagency councils and  , shall update implementation guidance for Enterprise Data Inventories and Source Code Inventories to support discovery and usability in   R&D.

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, and in accordance with the implementation of   Priority Goal: Leveraging Federal Data as a Strategic Asset, from the   President's Management Agenda, agencies shall consider methods of improving the quality, usability, and appropriate access to priority data identified by the   research community. Agencies shall also identify any associated resource implications.

(iv) In identifying data and models for consideration for increased public access, agencies, in coordination with   Officials for Privacy established pursuant to Executive Order   of   (Establishment of  ), the heads of Federal statistical entities, Federal program managers, and other relevant personnel shall identify any barriers to, or requirements associated with, increased access to and use of such data and models, including:

(A) privacy and civil liberty protections for individuals who may be affected by increased access and use, as well as confidentiality protections for individuals and other data providers;

(B) safety and security concerns, including those related to the association or compilation of data and models;

(C) data documentation and formatting, including the need for interoperable and machine-readable data formats;

(D) changes necessary to ensure appropriate data and system governance; and

(E) any other relevant considerations.

(v) In accordance with the President's Management Agenda and   Priority Goal: Leveraging Data as a Strategic Asset, agencies shall identify opportunities to use new technologies and best practices to increase access to and usability of open data and models, and explore appropriate controls on access to sensitive or restricted data and models, consistent with applicable laws and policies, privacy and confidentiality protections, and civil liberty protections.

(b) The Secretaries of Defense, Commerce, Health and Human Services, and  , the Administrator of  , and the Director of   shall, to the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, prioritize the allocation of high-performance computing resources for  -related applications through:

(i) increased assignment of discretionary allocation of resources and resource reserves; or

(ii) any other appropriate mechanisms.

(c) Within   of the date of this order,  , in coordination with   ( ), shall submit a report to the President making recommendations on better enabling the use of cloud computing resources for federally funded   R&D.

(d) The   shall provide technical expertise to   on matters regarding   and the modernization of Federal technology, data, and the delivery of digital services, as appropriate.

 . 6

.

Guidance for Regulation of AI Applications

.

(a) Within   of the date of this order, the   Director, in coordination with the   Director, the Director of  , and the Director of  , and in consultation with any other relevant agencies and key stakeholders as the   Director shall determine, shall issue a memorandum to the heads of all agencies that shall:

(i) inform the development of regulatory and non-regulatory approaches by such agencies regarding technologies and industrial sectors that are either empowered or enabled by  , and that advance   innovation while upholding civil liberties, privacy, and   values; and

(ii) consider ways to reduce barriers to the use of   technologies in order to promote their innovative application while protecting civil liberties, privacy,   values, and   economic and national security.

(b) To help ensure public trust in the development and implementation of   applications, OMB shall issue a draft version of the memorandum for public comment before it is finalized.

(c) Within   of the date of the memorandum described in subsection (a) of this section, the heads of implementing agencies that also have regulatory authorities shall review their authorities relevant to applications of   and shall submit to OMB plans to achieve consistency with the memorandum.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , through the Director of   (NIST), shall issue a plan for   engagement in the development of technical standards and related tools in support of reliable, robust, and trustworthy systems that use   technologies. NIST shall lead the development of this plan with participation from relevant agencies as the Secretary of   shall determine.

(i) Consistent with OMB Circular A-119, this plan shall include:

(A) Federal priority needs for standardization of   systems development and deployment;

(B) identification of standards development entities in which Federal agencies should seek membership with the goal of establishing or supporting   technical leadership roles; and

(C) opportunities for and challenges to   leadership in standardization related to   technologies.

(ii) This plan shall be developed in consultation with  , as needed, and in consultation with the private sector, academia, non-governmental entities, and other stakeholders, as appropriate.

 . 7

.

  and  .

(a) Heads of implementing agencies that also provide educational grants shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, consider   as a priority area within existing Federal fellowship and service programs.

(i) Eligible programs for prioritization shall give preference to   citizens, to the extent permitted by law, and shall include:

(A) high school, undergraduate, and graduate fellowship; alternative education; and training programs;

(B) programs to recognize and fund early-career university faculty who conduct AI R&D, including through Presidential awards and recognitions;

(C) scholarship for service programs;

(D) direct commissioning programs of  ; and

(E) programs that support the development of instructional programs and curricula that encourage the integration of   technologies into courses in order

to facilitate personalized and adaptive learning experiences for formal and informal education and training.

(ii) Agencies shall   communicate plans for achieving this prioritization to the co-chairs of  .

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the   shall provide recommendations to   on   regarding  -related educational and workforce development considerations that focus on   citizens.

(c) The   shall provide technical expertise to   on matters regarding   and the   workforce, as appropriate.

 . 8

.

Action Plan for Protection of the United States Advantage in  

.

(a) As directed by the  , the Assistant to the President for  , in coordination with the   Director and the recipients of the  , shall organize the development of an action plan to protect   advantage in   and   technology critical to   economic and national security interests against strategic competitors and adversarial nations.

(b) The action plan shall be provided to the President within   of the date of this order, and may be classified in full or in part, as appropriate.

(c) Upon approval by the President, the action plan shall be implemented by all agencies who are recipients of the  , for all  -related activities, including those conducted pursuant to this order.

 . 9

.

Definitions

. As used in this order:

(a) the term "artificial intelligence" means the full extent of Federal investments in  , to include: R&D of core   techniques and technologies;   prototype systems; application and adaptation of   techniques; architectural and systems support for  ; and cyberinfrastructure, data sets, and standards for  ; and

(b) the term "open data" shall, in accordance with OMB Circular A-130 and memorandum M-13-13, mean "publicly available data structured in a way that enables the data to be fully discoverable and usable by end users."

 . 10

.

General Provisions

.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
