Executive Order  — 
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Findings

. (a) Consistent with long-standing law of war principles and applicable law,   may detain certain persons captured in connection with an armed conflict for the duration of the conflict.

(b) Following the terrorist attacks of  , the   Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) and other authorities authorized   to detain certain persons who were a part of or substantially supported  , the  , or associated forces engaged in hostilities against   or its coalition partners.  ,   remains engaged in an armed conflict with  , the  , and associated forces, including with   and  .

(c) The detention operations at   are legal, safe, humane, and conducted consistent with   and international law.

(d) Those operations are continuing given that a number of the remaining individuals at the detention facility are being prosecuted in military commissions, while others must be detained to protect against continuing, significant threats to the security of  , as determined by periodic reviews.

(e) Given that some of the current detainee population represent the most difficult and dangerous cases from among those historically detained at the facility, there is significant reason for concern regarding their reengagement in hostilities should they have the opportunity.

 . 2

.

  at  . (a) Section 3 of Executive Order   of   (  at the Guantánamo Bay Naval Base and Closure of Detention Facilities), ordering the closure of detention facilities at  , is hereby revoked.

(b) Detention operations at   Guantánamo Bay shall continue to be conducted consistent with all applicable   and international law, including the Detainee Treatment Act of  .

(c) In addition,   may transport additional detainees to   when lawful and necessary to protect the  .

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the heads of any other appropriate executive departments and agencies as determined by the Secretary of  , recommend policies to the President regarding the disposition of individuals captured in connection with an armed conflict, including policies governing transfer of individuals to  . (e) Unless charged in or subject to a judgment of conviction by a military commission, any detainees transferred to   after the date of this order shall be subject to the procedures for periodic review established in Executive Order   (  at Guantánamo Bay Naval Station Pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force), to determine whether continued law of war detention is necessary to protect against a significant threat to the security of  .

 . 3

.

Rules of Construction

. (a) Nothing in this order shall prevent the Secretary of   from transferring any individual away from   when appropriate, including to effectuate an order affecting the disposition of that individual issued by a court or competent tribunal of   having lawful jurisdiction.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to affect existing law or authorities relating to the detention of   citizens, lawful permanent residents of  , or any persons who are captured or arrested in  .

(c) Nothing in this order shall prevent the Attorney General from, as appropriate, investigating, detaining, and prosecuting a terrorist subject to the criminal laws and jurisdiction of  .

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
