Executive Order  —  the National Emergency With Respect to  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order   of  , and Executive Order   of  , particularly in light of actions by persons affiliated with the illegitimate   regime, including human rights violations and abuses in response to   protests, arbitrary arrest and detention of anti-Maduro protestors, curtailment of press freedom, harassment of political opponents, and continued attempts to undermine the Interim President of   and undermine  , the only legitimate branch of government duly elected by the   people, and to prevent the Interim President and   from exercising legitimate authority in  , hereby order:

Section 1

. (a) Subsection (d) of section 6 of Executive Order  , subsection (d) of section 3 of Executive Order  , subsection (d) of section 3 of Executive Order  , subsection (d) of section 3 of Executive Order  , and subsection (d) of section 6 of Executive Order  , are hereby amended to read as follows:

"(d) the term "Government of Venezuela" includes the state and  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including   and  ,   ( ), any person owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the foregoing, and any person who has acted or purported to act directly or indirectly for or on behalf of, any of the foregoing, including as a member of the   regime."

Sec. 2

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on   and published in   on  . The Executive order referred to Interim President   Guaidó Márquez of  .
