Executive Order  —Building the National Garden of American Heroes
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

 

. In Executive Order   (Building and Rebuilding Monuments to    ), I made it the policy of   to establish a statuary park named the National Garden of American Heroes (National Garden). To begin the process of building this new monument to our country's greatness, I established     (Task Force) and directed its members to plan for construction of the National Garden.   has advised me it has completed the first phase of its work and is prepared to move forward. This order revises Executive Order   and provides additional direction for  .

Sec. 2

.

Purpose

. The chronicles of our history show that   is a land of heroes. As I announced during my address at Mount Rushmore, the gates of a beautiful new garden will soon open to the public where the legends of  's past will be remembered.

The National Garden will be built to reflect the awesome splendor of our country's timeless exceptionalism. It will be a place where citizens, young and old, can renew their vision of greatness and take up the challenge that I gave every   in my first address to  , to "[

b

]elieve in yourselves, believe in your future, and believe, once more, in  ."

Across this Nation, belief in the greatness and goodness of   has come under attack in   by a dangerous   extremism that seeks to dismantle our country's history, institutions, and very identity. The heroes of   have been desecrated, with statues of  ,  , and   vandalized and toppled. The dead who gave their lives to end slavery and save the Union during the Civil War have been dishonored, with monuments to  ,  , and the courageous 54th Regiment left damaged and disfigured. The brave warriors who saved freedom from   fascism have been disgraced with a memorial to World War II veterans defaced with the hammer and sickle of   communism.

The National Garden is America's answer to this reckless attempt to erase our heroes, values, and entire way of life. On its grounds, the devastation and discord of the moment will be overcome with abiding love of country and lasting patriotism. This is the   way. When the forces of anti-Americanism have sought to burn, tear down, and destroy, patriots have built, rebuilt, and lifted up. That is our history.   responded to the razing of   by building it back in the same place with unbroken resolve, to the murders of   and  , Jr., with a national temple and the Stone of Hope, and to the terrorism of 9/11 with a new Freedom Tower. In keeping with this tradition,   is responding to the tragic toppling of monuments to our founding generation and the giants of our past by commencing a new national project for their restoration, veneration, and celebration.

  will draw together and fix in the soil of a single place what   called "[

t

]he mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battlefield, and patriot grave, to every living heart." In the peace and harmony of this vast outdoor park, visitors will come and learn the amazing stories of some of the greatest   who have ever lived. The National Garden will feature a roll call of heroes who deserve honor, recognition, and lasting tribute because of the battles they won, the ideas they championed, the diseases they cured, the lives they saved, the heights they achieved, and the hope they passed down to all of us—that united as one   people trusting in God, there is no challenge that cannot be overcome and no dream that is beyond our reach.

In short, each individual has been chosen for embodying the   spirit of daring and defiance, excellence and adventure, courage and confidence, loyalty and love. Astounding the world by the sheer power of their example, each one of them has contributed indispensably to  's noble history, the best chapters of which are still to come.

 . 3

.

Honoring Additional American Heroes

. (a) Section 3(c) of Executive Order   is amended by striking the words "In addition to the requirements of subsection 3(b) of this order, the proposed options for the" and inserting in their place the word "The".

(b) Section 3(c)(i) of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows: "The National Garden should be composed of statues, including statues of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Jr.,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   ( ),  ,  ,  ,   Bill" Cody,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Davy Crockett,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , the Marquis de La Fayette,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Theodor  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  " Halsey, Jr.,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Billie Holiday,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Julia Ward Howe,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Chief  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Jr.,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Jr.,   Peale,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Sacagawea,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  ."

 . 4

.

Additional Amendments to Executive Order  

. (a) Section 3(b) of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows: "The Secretary, in consultation with  , shall identify a site suitable for the establishment of the National Garden. The Secretary shall proceed with construction of the National Garden at that site, to the extent consistent with the Secretary's existing authorities or authority later provided by the  ."

(b) Section 7 of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows: "Definition. The term "historically significant  " means an individual who made substantive contributions to  's public life or otherwise had a substantive effect on  's history."

 . 5

.

Funding

. (a) The Secretary of the   shall provide funding, as appropriate and consistent with available appropriations and applicable law, for the establishment and maintenance of the National Garden.

(b) The Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts and the Chairperson of  , in consultation with   and  , respectively, and  , should target spending one-twelfth of the discretionary funds available to their agencies on commissioning statues of individuals set forth in section 3(c)(i) of Executive Order  , as amended by section 3(b) of this order, for placement in the National Garden, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 6

.

Public Report

. Until such time as the National Garden is established and includes statues of all individuals set forth in section 3(c)(i) of Executive Order  , as amended by section 3(b) of this order, the Task Force shall publish an   public report describing progress on establishing the National Garden and on building statues of   heroes. This report shall include, as applicable, the steps the Task Force agencies have taken in   to prepare the National Garden to be opened for public access and listing all statues either commissioned for or placed in the National Garden.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
