Executive Order 13858—Strengthening  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and to strengthen   principles in Federal financial assistance programs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. As expressed in Executive Order   of   (  and  ), it is the policy of the executive branch to maximize, consistent with law, the use of goods, products, and materials produced in  , in Federal procurements and through the terms and conditions of Federal financial assistance awards.

 . 2

.

Definitions

. As used in this order:

(a) "Produced in  " means, for iron and steel products, that all manufacturing processes, from the initial melting stage through the application of coatings, occurred in  .

(b) "Federal financial assistance" shall have the meaning and shall be interpreted consistent with the definition provided by  , Cost Principles, and  , found at section 200.40 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations.

(c) "Manufactured products" means items and construction materials composed in whole or in part of non-ferrous metals such as aluminum; plastics and polymer-based products such as   pipe; aggregates such as concrete; glass, including optical fiber; and lumber.

(d) "Infrastructure project" means a project to develop public or private physical assets that are designed to provide or support services to the general public in the following sectors: surface transportation, including roadways, bridges, railroads, and transit; aviation; ports, including navigational channels; water resources projects; energy production, generation, and storage, including from fossil-fuels, renewable, nuclear, and hydroelectric sources; electricity transmission; gas, oil, and propane storage and transmission; electric, oil, natural gas, and propane distribution systems; broadband internet; pipelines; stormwater and sewer infrastructure; drinking water infrastructure; cybersecurity; and any other sector designated through a notice published in  

by  .

(e) "Covered program" means any program for which a focus of the statutory authorities under which it is administered is the award of Federal financial assistance for the alteration, construction, conversion, demolition, extension, improvement, maintenance, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or repair of an infrastructure project in  , except that this term shall not include:

(i) programs for which providing a domestic preference is inconsistent with law; or

(ii) programs providing Federal financial assistance that are subject to comparable domestic preferences. (f) "Domestic Preference" means a preference for the purchase, acquisition, or use of goods, products, or materials produced in  , including iron and aluminum as well as steel, cement, and other manufactured products.

 . 3

.

Application of Buy-American Principles to Covered Programs

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the head of each executive department and agency (agency) administering a covered program shall, as appropriate and to the extent consistent with law, encourage recipients of new Federal financial assistance awards pursuant to a covered program to use, to the greatest extent practicable, iron and aluminum as well as steel, cement, and other manufactured products produced in   in every contract, subcontract, purchase order, or sub-award that is chargeable against such Federal financial assistance award.

(b) The head of each agency administering a covered program shall include in the report required by section 4 of this order a detailed explanation of the strategy, plan, or program developed to satisfy the requirement of subsection (a) of this section.

 . 4

.

Identification of Opportunities to Maximize the Use of  . Within   of the date of this order, the head of each agency administering a covered program shall identify in a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Trade and Manufacturing Policy, any tools, techniques, terms, or conditions that have been used or could be used, consistent with law and in furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, to maximize the use of iron and aluminum as well as steel, cement, and other manufactured products produced in   in contracts, sub-contracts, purchase orders, or sub-awards that are chargeable against Federal financial assistance awards for infrastructure projects. In preparing this report, the agency head shall take care to analyze whether covered programs within the agency head's jurisdiction would support, through terms and conditions on new Federal financial assistance awards under such covered programs, the imposition of a requirement to use iron and aluminum as well as steel, cement, and other manufactured products produced in   in contracts, sub-contracts, purchase orders, or sub-awards that are chargeable against such Federal financial assistance awards.

 . 5

.

Amendment to Executive Order  

. Subsection 1(a) of Executive Order   is hereby amended by substituting "Federal financial assistance" for "Federal grants".

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof;

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals; or

(iii) existing rights or obligations under international agreements.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
