Executive Order  —Providing an Order of Succession Within  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , as amended, 5 U.S.C.  

et seq

. (the "Act"), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Order of Succession

. Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, and to the limitations set forth in the Act, the following officials of  , in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of   (Administrator) during any period in which the Administrator and the Deputy Administrator of   have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator:

(a)  ;

(b) Assistant Administrator,   (also known as the Assistant Administrator for  );

(c) Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances (also known as the Assistant Administrator for  );

(d) Assistant Administrator for  ;

(e) Assistant Administrator for  ;

(f) Assistant Administrator for  ;

(g) Chief Financial Officer;

(h) Assistant Administrator for  ;

(i) Assistant Administrator for   and  ;

(j) Assistant Administrator for  ;

(k) Associate Deputy Administrator for Programs;

(l) Associate Deputy Administrator;

(m)  , Region VIII;

(n) Principal Deputy Assistant Administrator for  ;

(o) Deputy  , Region VIII;

(p) Principal Deputy  ; and

(q) Principal Deputy Assistant Administrator for  .

Sec. 2

.

Exceptions

. (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1(a)-(q) of this order in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Administrator pursuant to this order.

(b) No individual listed in section 1(a)-(q) of this order shall act as Administrator unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Act. (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this order in designating an acting Administrator.

 . 3

.

Revocation

. Executive Order   (Providing an Order of Succession Within  ), is hereby revoked.

 . 4

.

General Provision

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
