Executive Order  —Establishing an Exception to Competitive Examining Rules for Appointment to Certain Positions in  ,  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including sections   and   of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Providing Appointment Authority

. (a) Good administration of the executive branch necessitates that   ( ), a component of  , have a hiring authority that is currently available to other Federal law enforcement agencies and that would, among other things, enable the   to be competitive in recruiting high-quality Deputy    , to better hire and retain qualified individuals in certain duty locations, and to more expeditiously fill vacant positions consistent with law enforcement needs. Accordingly, it is appropriate to place Deputy   Criminal Investigators of the   in Schedule B of the excepted service, as it is impracticable to hold open competition or to apply usual competitive examining procedures for those positions related to Federal law enforcement.

(b) Appointments to the positions identified in subsection (a) of this section:

(i) may not be made to positions of a confidential or policy-determining character or to positions in  ; and

(ii) shall constitute   B appointments that are:

(A) excepted from the competitive service; and

(B) subject to laws and regulations governing Schedule B appointments, including basic qualification standards established by the Director of   (Director) for the applicable occupation and grade level.

 . 2

.

Providing Conversion Authority

. (a) Deputy   Criminal Investigators of the   appointed under   B may, upon completion of   of substantially continuous, fully satisfactory service, be converted non-competitively to career appointments, provided they meet the qualifications and other requirements established by the Director.

(b) The Director shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to implement this order.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
