Executive Order  —Reviving  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to provide a coordinated process for developing and monitoring the implementation of national space policy and strategy, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

.  ) was established by Title V of Public Law 100-685 and Executive Order   of   (Establishing  ). The   was tasked with advising and assisting the President regarding national space policy and strategy. The   was never formally disestablished, but it effectively ceased operation in  . This order revives the   and provides additional details regarding its duties and responsibilities.

 . 2

.

Revival and Composition of  

. (a) The   is hereby revived and shall resume operations.

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members:

(i) The Vice President, who shall be Chair of the  ;

(ii) The Secretary of  ;

(iii) The Secretary of  ;

(iv) The Secretary of  ;

(v) The Secretary of  ;

(vi) The Secretary of  ;

(vii) The Director of  ;

(viii) The Director of  ;

(ix) The Assistant to the President for  ;

(x) The Administrator of  ;

(xi) The Director of  ;

(xii) The Assistant to the President for   and  ;

(xiii) The Chairman of  ; and

(xiv) The heads of other executive departments and agencies (agencies) and other senior officials within   of the President, as determined by the  .

 . 3

.

Functions of the  

. (a) The   shall advise and assist the President regarding national space policy and strategy, and perform such other duties as the President may, from time to time, prescribe.

(b) In particular, the   is directed to:

(i) review   space policy, including long-range goals, and develop a strategy for national space activities; (ii) develop recommendations for the President on space policy and space-related issues;

(iii) monitor and coordinate implementation of the objectives of the President's national space policy and strategy;

(iv) foster close coordination, cooperation, and technology and information exchange among the civil, national security, and commercial space sectors;

(v) advise on participation in international space activities conducted by  ; and

(vi) facilitate the resolution of differences concerning major space and space-related policy matters.

(c) The   shall meet at least annually.

(d) The revival and operation of the   shall not interfere with the existing lines of authority in or responsibilities of any agencies.

(e) The   shall have a staff, headed by a civilian Executive Secretary appointed by the President.

 . 4

.

Responsibilities of the Chair

. (a) The   shall serve as the President's principal advisor on national space policy and strategy.

(b) The   shall, in consultation with the members of the  , establish procedures for the   and establish the agenda for   activities.

(c) The   shall report to the President   on the  's activities and recommendations. The   shall advise the  , as appropriate, regarding the President's directions with respect to the  's activities and national space policy and strategy.

(d) The   may recommend to the President candidates for the position of Executive Secretary.

(e) The  , or upon the  's direction, the Executive Secretary, may invite the heads of other agencies, other senior officials in   of the President, or other Federal employees to participate in   meetings.

(f) The   shall authorize the establishment of committees of the  , including an executive committee, and of working groups, composed of senior designees of the   members and of other Federal officials invited to participate in   meetings, as he deems necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of   functions.

 . 5

.

National Space Policy and Strategy Planning Process

. (a) Each agency represented on the   shall provide such information to the   regarding its current and planned space activities as the   shall request.

(b) The head of each agency that conducts space-related activities shall, to the extent permitted by law, conform such activities to the President's national space policy and strategy.

(c) On space policy and strategy matters relating primarily to national security, the   shall coordinate with   ( ) to create policies and procedures for the   that respect the responsibilities and authorities of the   under existing law.

 . 6

.

 

. (a) The   shall convene a  ) pursuant to  , section 121, composed of   representatives of industries and other persons involved in aeronautical and space activities.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work for the  . Members of the  , while engaged in the work of the  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

(c) The   shall report directly to the   and shall provide advice or work product solely to the  .

 . 7

.

Administrative Provisions

. (a) To aid in the performance of the functions of  (i)   in   of the President shall provide the   with administrative support on a reimbursable basis; and

(ii) Legal advice to the   itself with respect to its work and functions shall be provided exclusively by   to the President.

(b) To the extent practicable and permitted by law, including the Economy Act, and within existing appropriations, agencies serving on the   and interagency councils and committees that affect space policy or strategy shall make resources, including, but not limited to, personnel, office support, and printing, available to the   as reasonably requested by the   or, upon the  's direction, the Executive Secretary.

(c) Agencies shall cooperate with the   and provide such information and advice to the   as it may reasonably request, to the extent permitted by law.

 . 8

.

Report

. Within   of this order, and annually thereafter, the   shall submit a report to the President setting forth its assessment of, and recommendations for, the space policy and strategy of  .

 . 9

.

General Provisions

. (a) This order supersedes Executive Order   of   (Establishing  ). To the extent this order is inconsistent with any provision of any earlier Executive Order or Presidential Memorandum, this order shall control.

(b) If any provision of this order or the application of such provision is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and other dissimilar applications of such provision shall not be affected.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(e) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
