Executive Order 13825—2018 Amendments to the Manual for Courts-Martial,  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (Uniform Code of Military Justice ( ), 10 U.S.C. 801-946), and in order to prescribe amendments to  ,  , prescribed by Executive Order 12473 of  , as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Part II, Part III, and Part IV of the Manual for Courts-Martial,  , are amended as described in Annex 1, which is attached to and made a part of this order.

 . 2. The amendments in   1 shall take effect on the date of this order, subject to the following:

(a) Nothing in Annex 1 shall be construed to make punishable any act done or omitted prior to the date of this order that was not punishable when done or omitted.

(b) Nothing in Annex 1 shall be construed to invalidate the prosecution of any offense committed before the date of this order. The maximum punishment for an offense committed before the date of this order shall not exceed the maximum punishment in effect at the time of the commission of such offense.

(c) Nothing in Annex 1 shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, investigation, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the date of this order, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, investigation, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action shall proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if the amendments in Annex 1 had not been prescribed.

 . 3. (a) Pursuant to section 5542 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (MJA), division E of   for  , Public Law 114-328, 130 Stat.  ,   ( ), except as otherwise provided by the   or this order, the   shall take effect on  .

(b) Nothing in the   shall be construed to make punishable any act done or omitted prior to  , that was not punishable when done or omitted.

(c) Nothing in title LX of the   shall be construed to invalidate the prosecution of any offense committed before  . The maximum punishment for an offense committed before  , shall not exceed the maximum punishment in effect at the time of the commission of such offense.

(d) Nothing in the   shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, investigation, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to  . Except as otherwise provided in this order, the   shall not apply in any case in which charges are referred to trial by court-martial before  . Except as otherwise provided in this order, proceedings in any such case shall be held in the same manner and with the same effect as if the   had not been enacted.

 . 4. The Manual for Courts-Martial,  , as amended by section 1 of this order, is amended as described in Annex 2, which is attached to and made a part of this order.

 . 5. The amendments in Annex 2, including  , shall take effect on  , subject to the following:

(a) Nothing in   2 shall be construed to make punishable any act done or omitted prior to  , that was not punishable when done or omitted.

(b) Nothing in section 4 of Annex 2 shall be construed to invalidate the prosecution of any offense committed before  . The maximum punishment for an offense committed before  , shall not exceed the maximum punishment in effect at the time of the commission of such offense.

(c) Nothing in   2 shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, investigation, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to  . Except as otherwise provided in this order, the amendments in   2 shall not apply in any case in which charges are referred to trial by court-martial before  . Except as otherwise provided in this order, proceedings in any such case shall be held in the same manner and with the same effect as if such amendments had not been prescribed.

 . 6. (a) The amendments to  , 56(d),  , and 63 of the   enacted by sections  ,  ,  , and 5327 of the   apply only to cases in which all specifications allege offenses committed on or after  .

(b) If the accused is found guilty of a specification alleging the commission of one or more offenses before  , Article 60 of the UCMJ, as in effect on the date of the earliest offense of which the accused was found guilty, shall apply to the convening authority, in addition to the suspending authority in Article 60a(c) as enacted by the  , to the extent that Article 60:

(1) requires action by the convening authority on the sentence;

(2) permits action by the convening authority on findings;

(3) authorizes the convening authority to modify the findings and sentence of a court-martial, dismiss any charge or specification by setting aside a finding of guilty thereto, or change a finding of guilty to a charge or specification to a finding of guilty to an offense that is a lesser included offense of the offense stated in the charge or specification;

(4) authorizes the convening authority to order a proceeding in revision or a rehearing; or

(5) authorizes the convening authority to approve, disapprove, commute, or suspend a sentence in whole or in part.

 . 7. The amendment to Article 15 of the UCMJ enacted by section 5141 of the   shall apply to any nonjudicial punishment imposed on or after  .

 . 8. The amendments to   and 34 of the   enacted by sections   and 5205 of the   apply with respect to preliminary hearings conducted and advice given on or after  .

 . 9. The amendments to Article 79 of the UCMJ enacted by section 5402 of the   and the amendments to Appendix 12A to  ,  , made by this order apply only to offenses committed on or after  .

 . 10. Except as provided by   902A, as promulgated by  , any change to sentencing procedures:

(a) made by  ), 19(b), 25(d)(2) and (3), 39(a)(4),  , or 56(c) of the  , as enacted by sections  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   of the  ; or

(b) included in Annex 2 in rules implementing those articles, applies only to cases in which all specifications allege offenses committed on or after  .

 . 11. The amendments to Article 146 of the UCMJ enacted by section 5521 of the   and the new Article 146a enacted by section 5522 of the   shall take effect on   after the report for   required by Article 146(c) of the   (as in effect before the  's amendments) is submitted in accordance with Article 146(c)(1), but in no event  .

 . 12. In accordance with Article 33 of the UCMJ, as amended by section 5204 of the  , the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , will issue nonbinding guidance regarding factors that commanders, convening authorities, staff judge advocates, and judge advocates should take into account when exercising their duties with respect to the disposition of charges and specifications in the interest of justice and discipline under Articles 30 and 34 of the  . That guidance will take into account, with appropriate consideration of military requirements, the principles contained in official guidance of the Attorney General to attorneys for   with respect to the disposition of Federal criminal cases in accordance with the principle of fair and evenhanded administration of Federal criminal law.

 

 ,

 .
