Executive Order  —  Growth
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to strengthen the   economy; improve the competitiveness of   industry; ensure food security; provide environmentally safe and sustainable seafood; support   workers; ensure coordinated, predictable, and transparent Federal actions; and remove unnecessary regulatory burdens, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

.   needs a vibrant and competitive seafood industry to create and sustain   jobs, put safe and healthy food on   tables, and contribute to the   economy. Despite  's bountiful aquatic resources, by weight our   imports over 85 percent of the seafood consumed in  . At the same time, illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing undermines the sustainability of   and global seafood stocks, negatively affects general ecosystem health, and unfairly competes with the products of law-abiding fishermen and seafood industries around the world. More effective permitting related to offshore aquaculture and additional streamlining of fishery regulations have the potential to revolutionize   seafood production, enhance rural prosperity, and improve the quality of   lives. By removing outdated and unnecessarily burdensome regulations; strengthening efforts to combat illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing; improving the transparency and efficiency of environmental reviews; and renewing our focus on long-term strategic planning to facilitate aquaculture projects, we can protect our aquatic environments; revitalize our  's seafood industry; get more   back to work; and put healthy, safe food on our families' tables.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to:

(a) identify and remove unnecessary regulatory barriers restricting   fishermen and aquaculture producers;

(b) combat illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing;

(c) provide good stewardship of public funds and stakeholder time and resources, and avoid duplicative, wasteful, or inconclusive permitting processes;

(d) facilitate aquaculture projects through regulatory transparency and long-term strategic planning;

(e) safeguard our communities and maintain a healthy aquatic environment;

(f) further fair and reciprocal trade in seafood products; and

(g) continue to hold imported seafood to the same food-safety requirements as domestically produced products.

 . 3

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) "Aquaculture" means the propagation, rearing, and harvesting of aquatic species in controlled or selected environments;

(b) "Aquaculture facility" means any land, structure, or other appurtenance that is used for aquaculture; (c) "Aquaculture project" means a project to develop the physical assets designed to provide or support services to activities in the aquaculture sector, including projects for the development or construction of an aquaculture facility;

(d) "Exclusive economic zone of  " means the zone established in Proclamation 5030 of   (Exclusive Economic Zone of  );

(e) "Lead agency" has the meaning given that term in the regulations of  , contained in title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, that implement the procedural provisions of   ( ) (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.);

(f) "Maritime domain" means all areas and things of, on, under, relating to, adjacent to, or bordering on a sea, ocean, or other navigable waterway, including all maritime-related activities, infrastructure, people, cargo, and vessels and other conveyances;

(g) "Maritime domain awareness" means the effective understanding of anything associated with the global maritime domain that could affect the security, safety, economy, or environment of  ; and

(h) "Project sponsor" means an entity, including any private, public, or public-private entity, that seeks an authorization for an aquaculture project.

 . 4

.

  to   Fishing

. (a) The Secretary of Commerce shall request each   to submit, within   of the date of this order, a prioritized list of recommended actions to reduce burdens on domestic fishing and to increase production within sustainable fisheries, including a proposal for initiating each recommended action within   of this order.

(i) Recommended actions may include changes to regulations, orders, guidance documents, or other similar agency actions.

(ii) Recommended actions shall be consistent with the requirements of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C.  

et seq

.); the Endangered Species Act of   (16 U.S.C.  

et seq

.);   (16 U.S.C.  

et seq

.); and other applicable laws.

(iii) Consistent with section 302(f) of   (16 U.S.C. 1852(f)), and within existing appropriations, the Secretary of   shall provide administrative and technical support to   to carry out this subsection.

(b) The Secretary of   shall review and, as appropriate and to the extent permitted by law, update   contribution to the Unified   based on an evaluation of the lists received pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.

(c) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall submit to the Director of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, and the Chair of   a report evaluating the recommendations described in subsection (a) of this section and describing any actions taken to implement those recommendations. This report shall be updated   for the following  .

 . 5

.

Combating Illegal, Unreported, and  

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through   ( ), shall issue, as appropriate and consistent with

applicable law, a notice of proposed rulemaking further implementing   to Prevent,  , and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported, and  , which entered into force on   ( ).

(b) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other appropriate executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall, to the extent permitted by law, encourage public-private partnerships and promote interagency, intergovernmental, and international cooperation in order to improve global maritime domain awareness, cooperation concerning at-sea transshipment activities, and the effectiveness of fisheries law enforcement.

(c) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall, consistent with applicable law and available appropriations, prioritize training and technical assistance in key geographic areas to promote sustainable fisheries management; to strengthen and enhance existing enforcement capabilities to combat illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing; and to promote implementation of  .

 . 6

.

  to Aquaculture Permitting

. (a) For aquaculture projects that require environmental review or authorization by two or more agencies in order to proceed with the permitting of an aquaculture facility, when the lead agency has determined that it will prepare an environmental impact statement ( ) under  , the agencies shall undertake to complete all environmental reviews and authorization decisions within  , measured from the date of the publication of a notice of intent to prepare an   to the date of issuance of   (ROD), and shall use the "One Federal Decision" process enhancements described in section 5(b) of Executive Order   of   (Establishing Discipline and Accountability in the Environmental Review and Permitting Process for Infrastructure Projects), and in subsections (a)(ii) and (iii) of this section. For such projects:

(i)   is designated as the lead agency for aquaculture projects located outside of the waters of any   or Territory and within the exclusive economic zone of   and shall be responsible for navigating the project through the   environmental review and authorization process, including the identification of a primary point of contact at each cooperating and participating agency;

(ii) Consistent with  " process enhancements, all cooperating and participating agencies shall cooperate with the lead agency and shall respond to requests for information from the lead agency in a timely manner;

(iii) Consistent with  " process enhancements, the lead agency and all cooperating and participating agencies shall record all individual agency decisions in one  , unless the project sponsor requests that agencies issue separate   documents, the   obligations of a cooperating or participating agency have already been satisfied, or the lead agency determines that a single   would not best promote completion of the project's environmental review and authorization process; and

(iv) The lead agency, in consultation with the project sponsor and all cooperating and participating agencies, shall prepare a permitting timetable for the project that includes the completion dates for all federally required environmental reviews and authorizations and for issuance of a  , and shall make the permitting timetable publicly available on its website. (b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the  , acting through the Assistant Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , other appropriate   officials, and appropriate   officials, shall:

(i) develop and propose for public comment, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, a proposed   nationwide permit authorizing finfish aquaculture activities in marine and coastal waters out to the limit of the territorial sea and in ocean waters beyond the territorial sea within the exclusive economic zone of  ;

(ii) assess whether to develop a   nationwide permit authorizing finfish aquaculture activities in other waters of  ;

(iii) develop and propose for public comment, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, a proposed   nationwide permit authorizing seaweed aquaculture activities in marine and coastal waters out to the limit of the territorial sea and in ocean waters beyond the territorial sea within the exclusive economic zone of  ;

(iv) assess whether to develop a   nationwide permit authorizing seaweed aquaculture activities for other waters of  ;

(v) develop and propose for public comment, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, a proposed   nationwide permit authorizing multi-species aquaculture activities in marine and coastal waters out to the limit of the territorial sea and in ocean waters beyond the territorial sea within the exclusive economic zone of  ; and

(vi) assess whether to develop a   nationwide permit authorizing multi-species aquaculture activities for other waters of  .

 . 7

.

Aquaculture Opportunity Areas

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , other appropriate   officials, and appropriate  , and in coordination with appropriate   and tribal governments, shall:

(i) within   of this order, identify at least two geographic areas containing locations suitable for commercial aquaculture and, within   of identifying each area, complete a programmatic EIS for each area to assess the impact of siting aquaculture facilities there; and

(ii) for each of the following  , identify two additional geographic areas containing locations suitable for commercial aquaculture and, within   of identifying each area, complete a programmatic EIS for each area to assess the impact of siting aquaculture facilities there.

(b) A programmatic EIS completed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section may include the identification of suitable species for aquaculture in those particular locations, suitable gear for aquaculture in such locations, and suitable reporting requirements for owners and operators of aquaculture facilities in such locations.

(c) In identifying specific geographic areas under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of   shall solicit and consider public comment and seek to minimize unnecessary

resource use conflicts as appropriate, including conflicts with military readiness activities or operations; navigation; shipping lanes; commercial and recreational fishing; oil, gas, renewable energy, or other marine mineral exploration and development; essential fish habitats, under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act; and species protected under the Endangered Species Act of   or  .

 . 8

.

Improving Regulatory Transparency for Aquaculture

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with other appropriate   officials, shall prepare and place prominently on the appropriate   webpage a single guidance document that:

(i) describes the   regulatory requirements and relevant Federal and   agencies involved in aquaculture permitting and operations; and

(ii) identifies Federal grant programs applicable to aquaculture siting, research, development, and operations.

(b) The Secretary of  , acting through the Administrator of NOAA, shall update this guidance as appropriate, but not less than once  .

 . 9

.

 

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of  , in consultation with  , established pursuant to the National Aquaculture Act of   (16 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), shall assess whether to revise  , consistent with 16 U.S.C. 2803(a)(2) and (d), in order to strengthen our  's domestic aquaculture production and improve the efficiency and predictability of aquaculture permitting, including permitting for aquaculture projects located outside of the waters of any   or Territory and within the exclusive economic zone of  .

(b) In making any revisions to   as a result of this assessment, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Commerce shall, as appropriate:

(i) include the elements described at 16 U.S.C. 2803(b) and (c) and the appropriate determinations described at 16 U.S.C. 2803(d);

(ii) include programs to analyze, and formulate proposed resolutions of, the legal or regulatory constraints that may affect aquaculture, including any impediments to establishing security of tenure—that is, use rights with a specified duration tied to a particular location—for aquaculture operators, owners, and investors; and

(iii) consider whether to include a permitting framework, including a delineation of agency responsibilities for permitting and associated agency operations, consistent with section 6 of this order and with   issued on  , by   and  , pursuant to Executive Order  .

(c) The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of  , in consultation with  , shall subsequently assess, not less than once  , whether to revise  , as appropriate and consistent with 16 U.S.C. 2803(d) and (e). If the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Commerce decide not to revise  , they shall within   of such decision submit to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy a report explaining their reasoning.

 . 10

.

 

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , other appropriate   officials, and  , as appropriate, shall consider whether to terminate the     and to replace it with a new  .

(b) Any new   shall be completed, consistent with applicable law, within   of the date of this order.

(c) Any new   shall include additional information about aquaculture, including aquaculture projects located outside of the waters of any   or Territory and within the exclusive economic zone of  , and shall incorporate risk-based management strategies as appropriate.

(d) If adopted, the Plan described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall subsequently be updated, as appropriate, but not less than once  , by the Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , other appropriate   officials, and  , as appropriate.

 . 11

.

International Seafood Trade

. (a) In furtherance of fair and reciprocal trade in seafood products, within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce shall establish   (Seafood Trade Task Force) to be co-chaired by the Secretary of   and  ), or their designees. The Secretary of Commerce shall, to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations, provide administrative support and funding for  .

(b) In addition to  ,   shall include the following members, or their designees:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Director of  ;

(vi) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(vii) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(viii) the Chairman of  ;

(ix) the Under Secretary of  ;

(x)  ;

(xi) the Administrator of  ; and

(xii) the heads of such other agencies and offices as   may designate.

(c) Within   of the date of this order,   shall provide recommendations to   in the preparation of a comprehensive interagency seafood trade strategy that identifies opportunities to improve access to foreign markets through trade policy and negotiations, resolves technical barriers to   seafood exports, and otherwise supports fair market access for   seafood products.

(d) Within   of the date on which   provides the recommendations described in subsection (c) of this section,  , in consultation with   and  , shall submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the comprehensive interagency seafood trade strategy described in subsection (c) of this section.

 . 12

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
