Executive  —  Under the Defense Production Act of   to the Chief Executive Officer of   To Respond to the COVID-19 Outbreak
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (the "Act"), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. In   (Declaring a National Emergency Concerning the Novel Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) Outbreak), I declared a national emergency recognizing the threat that the novel (new) coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 poses to our  's healthcare systems. In recognizing the public health risk, I noted that on  ,   announced that the outbreak of   (the disease caused by SARS-CoV-2) can be characterized as a pandemic.

To ensure that our country has the capacity, capability, and strong and resilient domestic industrial base necessary to respond to the   outbreak, it is the policy of   to further expand domestic production of strategic resources needed to respond to the   outbreak, including strengthening relevant supply chains within   and its territories. It is important to use all resources available to  , including executive departments and agencies (agencies) with expertise in loan support for private institutions. Accordingly, I am delegating authority under title III of the Act to make loans, make provision for purchases and commitments to purchase, and take additional actions to create, maintain, protect, expand, and restore the domestic industrial base capabilities, including supply chains within   and its territories ("domestic supply chains"), needed to respond to the   outbreak.

 . 2

.

  Under Title III of the Act

. (a) Notwithstanding Executive Order   of   (National Defense Resources Preparedness), and in addition to the delegation of authority in Executive Order   of   (  Under the Defense Production Act With Respect to Health and Medical Resources to   to  ), the Chief Executive Officer of   (DFC) is delegated the authority of the President conferred by sections 302 and 303 of the Act (50 U.S.C. 4532 and  ), and the authority to implement the Act in subchapter III of chapter 55 of title  , United States Code (50 U.S.C.  ,  ,  , and  ).

(b) The Chief Executive Officer of the   may use the authority under sections 302 and 303 of the Act, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other agencies as he deems appropriate, for the domestic production of strategic resources needed to respond to the   outbreak, or to strengthen any relevant domestic supply chains.

(c) The loan authority delegated by this order is limited to loans that create, maintain, protect, expand, or restore domestic industrial base capabilities supporting:

(i) the national response and recovery to the   outbreak; or

(ii) the resiliency of any relevant domestic supply chains. (d) Loans extended using the authority delegated by this order shall be made in accordance with the principles and guidelines outlined in  , OMB Circular A-129, and   of  , as amended (2 U.S.C. 661

et seq

.).

(e) The Chief Executive Officer of the   shall adopt appropriate rules and regulations as may be necessary to implement this order.

 . 3

.

Termination

. The delegation of authority in this order shall expire upon termination of the   period during which the requirements described in section 302(c)(1) of the Act (50 U.S.C. 4532(c)(1)) are waived pursuant to title III of division B of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (Public Law 116-136).

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
