Executive Order  —Establishment of   of  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and section 741 of   (Act) (Public Law 116-113), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Establishment of Forced Labor Enforcement Task Force

.   (Task Force) is hereby established to monitor   enforcement of the prohibition under section 307 of the Tariff Act of   (19 U.S.C.  ).

 . 2

.

Membership

. The Task Force shall be chaired by the Secretary of   and shall be composed of representatives from  ,  ,  ,  , and   Representative. The   may invite representatives from other executive departments or agencies, as appropriate, to participate as members or observers. Members of   may designate an officer of   within their respective executive department or agency to serve as their representative on  . Each executive department or agency represented on the Task Force shall ensure that the necessary staff are available to assist their respective representatives in performing the responsibilities of  .

 . 3

.

Task Force Decision-making

. The Task Force shall endeavor to make any decision on an action under sections 742 through 744 of the Act by consensus, which shall be deemed to exist where no Task Force member objects to the proposed action. If   is unable to reach a consensus on a proposed action, and the   determines that allotting further time will cause a decision to be unduly delayed, the Task Force shall decide the matter by majority vote of its members. The  , in addition to voting, may also break any tie vote.

 . 4

.

Funding

. Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expenses incurred in connection with   functions described in sections 741 through 744 of the Act.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof;

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
