Executive  —Establishing       and   Natives
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to enhance the operation of the criminal justice system and address the legitimate concerns of     and   communities regarding missing and murdered people—particularly missing and murdered indigenous women and girls—it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. My Administration has heard the ongoing and serious concerns of tribal governments regarding missing and murdered members of     and   communities, particularly women and girls. To address the severity of those concerns, top officials within   will coordinate and engage with the tribal governments.

 . 2

.

Establishment

. (a) There is hereby established       and   (Task Force), co-chaired by the Attorney General and the Secretary of the   (Secretary) or their designees.

(b)   shall provide funding and administrative support as may be necessary for the performance and functions of  . The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary, shall designate an official of   to serve as the Executive Director of  , responsible for coordinating its day-to-day functions. As necessary and appropriate,   may afford the other members of   an opportunity to provide input into the decision of whom to designate as the Executive Director.

 . 3

.

Membership

. (a) In addition to  , the Task Force shall be composed wholly of full-time, or permanent part-time, officers or employees of   and shall include the following members:

(i) the Director of  ;

(ii) the Assistant Secretary for  ,  ;

(iii) the Director of  ;

(iv) the Director of  ,  ,  ;

(v) the Chair of the   Issues Subcommittee of the Attorney General's  ;

(vi) the Commissioner of the Administration for  ,  ; and

(vii) such representatives of other executive departments, agencies, and offices as   may, from time to time, designate.

(b) In performing the functions set forth in sections 4 and 5 of this order,   and members may designate representatives of their respective departments, agencies, offices, or entities under their direction to participate in   as necessary, and   may also direct coordination with other Presidential task forces. In carrying out its functions, the Task Force shall coordinate with appropriate   officials, including the Senior Counselor to the President, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, and the Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of  .

 . 4

.

Mission and Functions

. (a) The Task Force shall:

(i) conduct appropriate consultations with tribal governments on the scope and nature of the issues regarding missing and murdered     and  ;

(ii) develop model protocols and procedures to apply to new and unsolved cases of missing or murdered persons in     and   communities, including best practices for:

(A) improving the way law enforcement investigators and prosecutors respond to the high volume of such cases, and to the investigative challenges that might be presented in cases involving female victims;

(B) collecting and sharing data among various jurisdictions and law enforcement agencies; and

(C) better use of existing criminal databases, such as   (NamUs),   (NCIC), and the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) including   (NDIS);

(iii) establish a multi-disciplinary, multi-jurisdictional team including representatives from tribal law enforcement and   and the   to review cold cases involving missing and murdered     and  ;

(iv) address the need for greater clarity concerning roles, authorities, and jurisdiction throughout the lifecycle of cases involving missing and murdered     and   Natives by:

(A) developing and publishing best-practices guidance for use by  , local, and tribal law enforcement in cases involving missing and murdered     and  , to include best practices related to communication with affected families from initiation of an investigation through case resolution or closure;

(B) facilitating formal agreements or arrangements among  ,  , local, and tribal law enforcement to promote maximally cooperative, trauma-informed responses to cases involving missing and murdered     and  ;

(C) developing and executing an education and outreach campaign for communities that are most affected by crime against   and   to identify and reduce such crime; and

(D) developing, in partnership with  , a public-awareness campaign to educate both rural and urban communities about the needs of affected families and resources that are both needed and available.

 . 5

.

Reporting

. (a)   after the date of this order, the Task Force shall develop and submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, a written report regarding the activities and accomplishments of  , the status of projects   has not yet completed, and specific recommendations for future action of  .

(b)   after the date of this order, the Task Force shall develop and submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, a final written report regarding the activities and accomplishments of  .

 . 6

.

Termination

. The Task Force shall terminate   after the date of this order, unless otherwise directed by the President.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
