Executive Order  —Blocking Property of Certain Persons With Respect to   of  
 
  (1st Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Public Law 115-44),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that:

It remains the policy of   to counter  's malign influence in the Middle East, including transfers from   of destabilizing conventional weapons and acquisition of arms and related materiel by  . Transfers to and from   of arms or related materiel or military equipment represent a continuing threat to regional and international security—as evidenced by  's continued military support that fuels ongoing conflict in  ,  ,  , and  .   benefits from engaging in the conventional arms trade by strengthening its relationships with other outlier regimes, lessening its international isolation, and deriving revenue that it uses to support terror groups and fund malign activities. In light of these findings and in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order   (Prohibiting Certain Transactions with   to  ), I hereby order:

Section. 1

. (a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) any person determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , to engage in any activity that materially contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer, directly or indirectly, to or from  , or for the use in or benefit of  , of arms or related materiel, including spare parts;

(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , to provide to   any technical training, financial resources or services, advice, other services, or assistance related to the supply, sale, transfer, manufacture, maintenance, or use of arms and related materiel described in subsection (a)(i) of this section;

(iii) any person determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , to have engaged, or attempted to engage, in any activity that materially contributes to, or poses a risk of materially contributing to, the proliferation of arms or related materiel or items intended for military end-uses or military end-users, including any efforts to manufacture, acquire, possess, develop, transport, transfer, or use such items, by   (including persons owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of  ) or paramilitary organizations financially or militarily supported by  ;

(iv) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(v) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section do not apply to property and interests in property of   that were blocked pursuant to Executive Order     ( ), and thereafter made subject to the transfer directives set forth in Executive Order  Direction to  ), and implementing regulations thereunder.

 . 2

. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 3

. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and the entry of such persons into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of   determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of  , including when the Secretary so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important   law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of   shall consult the Secretary of   on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of  . Such persons shall be treated in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of   shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary of   has established or may establish pursuant to  .

 . 4

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 5

. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 6

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) the term "Government of Iran" includes  ; any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including  ; and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran;

(c) the term " " means   and the territory of  ;

(d) the term "person" means an individual or entity; and

(e) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 7

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 8

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 9

. This order shall not apply with respect to any person for conducting or facilitating a transaction for the provision (including any sale) of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to  .

 . 10

. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   or   (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

 . 11

. The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the   Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.

 . 12

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
