 

To Collectors of  :

Under the provisions of section  ,  , so much of   instructions of  ,* approved by the President, as prohibits the importation and use of breech-loading rifles and suitable ammunition therefor into and within the limits of the Territory of   is hereby amended and modified so as to permit emigrants who intend to become actual bona fide settlers upon the mainland to ship to the care of the collector of customs at  , for their own personal protection and for the hunting of game, not exceeding one such rifle and suitable ammunition therefor to each male adult; also to permit actual bona fide residents of the mainland of   (not including   or traders), upon application to the collector and with his approval, to order and ship for personal use such arms and ammunition to his care, not exceeding one rifle for each such person, and proper ammunition.

The sale of such arms and ammunition is prohibited except by persons about to leave the  , and then only to bona fide residents (excluding   and traders) upon application to and with the approval of the collector.

 ,

Acting Secretary.

 

Approved:

CHESTER A. ARTHUR, PRESIDENT OF  .

To all to whom these presents shall come, greeting:

Whereas on  ,  , then major-general of volunteers in the military service of  , and also colonel of   and brevet brigadier-general in  , was by a general court-martial, for certain offenses of which he had been thereby convicted, sentenced "to be cashiered and to be forever disqualified from holding any office of trust or profit under  ;" and

Whereas on  , that sentence was duly confirmed by the President of  , and by his order of the same date carried into execution; and

Whereas so much of that sentence as forever disqualified the said   from holding office imposed upon him a continuing penalty and is still being executed; and Whereas doubts have since arisen concerning the guilt of the said   of the offenses whereof he was convicted by the said court-martial, rounded upon the result of an investigation ordered on  , by the President of  , which are deemed by me to be of sufficient gravity to warrant the remission of that part of said sentence which has not yet been completely executed:

Now, therefore, know ye that I,  , President of  , by virtue of the power vested in me by the Constitution of the United States and in consideration of the premises, do hereby grant to the said   full remission of the hereinbefore-mentioned continuing penalty.

In witness whereof I have hereunto signed my name and caused the seal of   to be affixed.

Done at the city of  ,  , A. D.  , and of   the one hundred and sixth.

 

By the President:
