2.
After debate pursuant to the first section of this resolution, it shall be in order for the chair of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or his designee to offer an amendment en bloc consisting of the further amendments printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The amendment en bloc offered pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or their respective designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
3.
At the conclusion of the consideration of the amendment en bloc described in section 2 of this resolution, it shall be in order for the chair of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or his designee to offer an amendment en bloc consisting of the further amendments printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The amendment en bloc offered pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 30 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or their respective designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
4.
At the conclusion of the consideration of the amendment en bloc described in section 3 of this resolution, it shall be in order for the chair of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or his designee to offer an amendment en bloc consisting of the further amendments printed in part D of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The amendment en bloc offered pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 30 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or their respective designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
5.
At the conclusion of the consideration of the amendment en bloc described in section 4 of this resolution, it shall be in order for the chair of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or his designee to offer an amendment en bloc consisting of the further amendments printed in part E of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The amendment en bloc offered pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or their respective designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
6.
At the conclusion of the consideration of the amendment en bloc described in section 5 of this resolution, it shall be in order for the chair of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or his designee to offer an amendment en bloc consisting of the further amendments printed in part F of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The amendment en bloc offered pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 30 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or their respective designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
7.
At the conclusion of the consideration of the amendment en bloc described in section 6 of this resolution, it shall be in order for the ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or his designee to offer an amendment en bloc consisting of the further amendments printed in part G of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The amendment en bloc offered pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 30 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or their respective designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
8.
At the conclusion of the consideration of the amendment en bloc described in section 7 of this resolution, each further amendment printed in part H of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
9.
(a)
Prior to the offering of an amendment en bloc pursuant to sections 2 through 7 of this resolution, the chair of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or his designee may designate amendments that shall not be considered as part of the amendment en bloc to be offered pursuant to such section.
(b)
Any amendment designated pursuant to subsection (a) shall be in order at the conclusion of the consideration of the further amendments pursuant to section 8 of this resolution if offered by a Member designated in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
(c)
All points of order against amendments en bloc described in sections 2 through 7 of this resolution, the further amendments described in section 8 of this resolution, and the further amendments described in this section are waived.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
