SECTION 1. (a) The provisions of Part II—Procedures for Coordination Abroad—of Executive Order No.  , shall be applicable to the official activities of persons assigned abroad under authority of   said act of  .

(b) The Secretary of Agriculture shall institute and maintain such measures consistent with the said Part II as may be necessary to insure that the official activities of persons assigned abroad under the said Title VI are carried on consonant with   foreign-policy objectives as defined by the Secretary of   and are effectively coordinated with the activities of representatives of other   agencies, under the leadership of the Chief of  .

(c) Consistent with subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue instructions on agricultural matters to persons assigned abroad under authority of the said Title VI.

 . 2. Rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of   under authority vested in him by   of  , as heretofore or hereafter amended, or under authority thereunder heretofore or hereafter delegated to him by the President, with respect to allowances and benefits under the said Title IX shall be applicable to personnel assigned abroad under Title VI of the said act of   Provided, (1) that the Secretary of  , upon request of the Secretary of  , may prescribe, within existing authority of law and when deemed necessary, special rules and regulations for such personnel; and (2) that the Secretary of Agriculture may, within the limitation of such rules and regulations, prescribe necessary implementing directions. The Secretary of Agriculture may designate employees of   to make specific determinations and take specific actions in the application of such rules and regulations to the activities of  .

 . 3. Such provisions in   appropriation acts of  , including such acts hereafter enacted, facilitating the work of     as the Director of   shall from time to time determine appropriate shall be applicable to activities authorized under Title VI of the said act of  .

This order shall be effective as of  .
