SECTION 1. International development. (a) The functions conferred upon the Secretary of   by Executive Order No.   of  , 15 P.R.  , are hereby transferred to the Director for Mutual Security; and, accordingly, the said Executive order is amended by striking therefrom, wherever they appear, the words "Secretary of  " and inserting in lieu thereof, in each instance, the words "Director for Mutual Security."

(b)   is hereby transferred from   to the jurisdiction of the Director for Mutual Security and shall be administered under his direction and supervision.

  2. Participation in certain international organizations. There are hereby delegated to the Director for Mutual Security the functions conferred upon the President by section 534 of the Mutual Security Act of  , as amended, section 12 of the Mutual Security Act of  , and section 303 of the Mutual Security Act of  , as amended, with respect to   (as the successor of   for the Movement of Migrants from Europe),  , and  , respectively.

 . 3. Ocean freight charges on relief supplies, etc.   is hereby designated as the agency of the Government which shall hereafter exercise the authority to pay ocean freight charges on shipments of relief supplies and packages under section 117 (c) of the Economic Cooperation Act of  , as amended, and section 535 of the Mutual Security Act of  , as amended.

  4. Functions of Secretary of   and  , (a) Nothing in this order shall be deemed to modify the functions of the Secretary of   with respect to conducting negotiations with other governments.

(b) The Secretary of   and the Director for Mutual Security shall establish and maintain arrangements which will insure that the functions of the said Director under this order shall be carried out in conformity with the established foreign policy of  .

(c) The Secretary of   shall be responsible for making   contributions, under subsections (a) and (b) of section 404 of the Act for International Development, to   for technical cooperation programs carried on by it and its related organizations, and to  , its related organizations, and other international organizations for technical cooperation programs carried on by them, and for making   contributions to the international organizations referred to in section 2 hereof. The Secretary of   shall also be responsible for formulating and presenting, with the assistance of the Director for  , the policy of   with respect to the assistance programs of the international organizations referred to in this subsection and in section 2 hereof and for representing   in those organizations. Sections 1 (a) and 2 hereof shall be subject to this subsection.

(d) The Director for Mutual Security shall allocate to   funds which have been or may be appropriated or otherwise made available for contributions of   to the international organizations referred to in section 2 hereof or to those receiving contributions under subsections (a) and (b) of section 404 of the Act for International Development.

 . 5. Miscellaneous provisions, (a) Subsection (a) of section 2 and sections 3 and 4 of Executive Order No. 10300 of  , as amended by Executive Order No.   of  , are hereby revoked.

(b) There shall be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Director for  , consonant with law, so much as the Director of   shall determine of the personnel, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds, employed, held, used, available, or to be made available in connection with the functions transferred, delegated, or assigned to the Director for Mutual Security or   by this order. Such further measures and dispositions as the Director of   shall deem to be necessary in order to effectuate the transfers provided for in this section shall be carried out in such manner as he shall direct and by such agencies as he shall designate.

(c) To the extent that any provision of any prior Executive order is inconsistent with the provisions of this order, the latter shall control and such prior provision is amended accordingly.

(d) All orders, regulations, rulings, certificates, directives, agreements, contracts, delegations, determinations, and other actions of any officer or agency of the Government relating to any function affected by this order shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under proper authority.
