By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.), and   (67 Stat. 231;  . approved  ), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of  , it is hereby ordered that section 310 of the "Executive Order Further Providing for the Administration of the Defense Mobilization Program," being Executive Order No.   of   (18 F.R.  ), shall be. and it is hereby, amended, effective at the close of business on  , to read as follows:

"  310. (a) The Secretary of the  , hereafter in this section referred to as the Secretary, is hereby authorized and directed to make loans (including participations in, or guarantees of, loans) to private business enterprises (including research corporations not organized for profit) for the expansion of capacity, the development of technological processes, and the production of essential materials, including the exploration, development, and mining of strategic and critical metals and minerals, exclusive of such expansion, development and production in foreign countries, as authorized by and subject to section 302 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended. The functions assigned to the Secretary by this section include the administration and servicing of all loans (including participations in, or guarantees of, loans) made by   prior to  , pursuant to the said section 302.

"(b) Loans under section 310 (a) hereof (1) shall be made upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary shall determine, (2) shall be made only after the Secretary has determined in each instance that financial assistance is not available on reasonable terms from private sources or from other governmental sources, and (3) shall be made only upon certificate of essentiality of the loan, which certificate shall be made by the Director of  .

"(c) Applications for loans under section 310 (a) hereof shall be received from applicants by the Secretary or by such agencies of the Government as the Secretary shall designate for this purpose."
