1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Maritime Academy Reinvestment And Training Improvements for Mariner Employment Act
or the
MARITIME Act
.
2.
Education and research harbors
(a)
In general
Chapter 541
of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
54103.
Education and research harbors
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Maritime Administration.
(2)
Eligible harbor
The term
eligible harbor
means a harbor that supports or will support a federally owned vessel operated by—
(A)
a State maritime academy (as defined in section 51102 of this title); or
(B)
a non-Federal oceanographic research facility.
(b)
Establishment of program
The Administrator shall establish a program to provide assistance to a non-Federal interest for a project relating to an eligible harbor.
(c)
Form of assistance
A non-Federal interest may receive assistance for a project for—
(1)
the construction or maintenance dredging of an eligible harbor;
(2)
the construction, installation, or maintenance of infrastructure in an eligible harbor, including bulkheads, aprons, and piles;
(3)
the construction or maintenance dredging of a berth in an eligible harbor; or
(4)
the construction or maintenance dredging providing access from an eligible harbor to the nearest navigation channel or deep water.
(d)
Local cooperation agreement
(1)
In general
Before providing assistance under this section, the Administrator shall enter into a local cooperation agreement (referred to in this subsection as an
agreement
) with a non-Federal interest to provide for design or construction of the project to be carried out with the assistance.
(2)
Requirements
An agreement entered into under this subsection shall provide for the following:
(A)
Plan
Development by the Administrator, in consultation with appropriate Federal and State officials, of a facilities or resource protection and development plan, including appropriate engineering plans and specifications.
(B)
Legal and institutional structures
Establishment of such legal and institutional structures as are necessary to ensure the effective long-term operation of the project by the non-Federal interest.
(3)
Cost sharing
(A)
In general
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the Federal share of project costs for a project under this section—
(i)
shall not exceed 65 percent; and
(ii)
may be in the form of grants or reimbursements of project costs.
(B)
Credit for design work
The non-Federal interest shall receive credit for the reasonable costs of design work completed by the non-Federal interest before entering into an agreement with the Administrator for a project.
(C)
Credit for interest
In the case of a delay in the funding of the Federal share of the costs of a project under this section, the non-Federal interest shall receive credit for reasonable interest incurred in providing the Federal share of the project costs.
(D)
Land, easements, rights-of-way, and relocations
The non-Federal interest shall receive credit for land, easements, rights-of-way, and relocations provided by the non-Federal interest toward the non-Federal share of project costs (including all reasonable costs associated with obtaining permits necessary for the construction, operation, and maintenance of the project on publicly owned or controlled land), but not to exceed 25 percent of the total project cost.
(E)
Operation and maintenance
The non-Federal share of operation and maintenance costs for a project constructed under this section shall be 100 percent.
(e)
Applicability of other Federal and State laws
Nothing in this section waives, limits, or otherwise affects the applicability of any provision of Federal or State law (including regulations) that would otherwise apply to a project under this section.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section for each fiscal year an amount not greater than $15,000,000, to remain available until expended.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
54103. Education and research harbors.
.
3.
Centers of excellence for domestic maritime workforce training and education
Section 54102 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
State Maritime Academy
The Secretary of Transportation shall designate each State Maritime Academy, as defined in section 51102(4) of this title, as a center of excellence under this section.
.
