1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Passenger Privacy Protection Act of 2019
.
2.
Prohibitions relating to cameras and microphones on aircraft
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 417
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
41725.
Prohibitions relating to cameras and microphones on aircraft
(a)
Prohibitions
The following rules shall apply to all aircraft of an air carrier and a foreign air carrier:
(1)
Any in-flight entertainment system installed on the aircraft after the date of the enactment of this section may not have an embedded camera or microphone. In the case where the aircraft has, as of such date of enactment, a existing camera or microphone embedded in an in-flight entertainment system, by not later than 2 months after such date of enactment—
(A)
the camera shall be either—
(i)
removed;
(ii)
permanently disabled and covered; or
(iii)
covered in a fashion that prevents the camera from making any observation; and
(B)
the microphone shall be either—
(i)
removed; or
(ii)
physically disconnected and covered in a fashion that renders the microphone ineffective.
(2)
Any camera or microphone that is designed to observe a passenger and that is separate from an in-flight entertainment system may not be installed on the aircraft after the date of the enactment of this section. Any such camera or microphone that was installed on the aircraft prior to such date of enactment shall be removed within 2 months of such date of enactment.
(b)
Changes to remote switches not sufficient
Changes made by an air carrier or a foreign air carrier to remote switches of an in-flight entertainment system are not sufficient to meet the requirements of subsection (a)(1).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 417
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 41724
the following:
41725. Prohibitions relating to cameras and microphones on aircraft.
.
3.
Requiring audits of airlines regarding the information they collect on passengers
The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall periodically conduct audits of air carriers and foreign air carriers (as such terms are defined in section 40102 of title 49, United States Code) regarding the information the carrier collects with respect to passengers on its aircraft, including any information obtained through the physical surveillance of passengers.
