1.
Reporting requirements relating to applications for authorization to develop or produce special
nuclear material
outside the United States
Section 57 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (
42 U.S.C. 2077
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
f.
Reporting requirements
(1)
Quarterly reports
(A)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the chairman and ranking member of each of the appropriate congressional committees a report that describes each authorization issued by the Secretary under subsection b.(2) during the 90-day period preceding submission of the report.
(B)
Elements
Each report required by subparagraph (A) shall include—
(i)
a summary of each application for an authorization under subsection b.(2) during the 90-day period preceding submission of the report, including a description of—
(I)
whether the application was accepted or rejected;
(II)
the applicant; and
(III)
the intended purpose for which the applicant sought the authorization; and
(ii)
an annex containing—
(I)
each application submitted to the Secretary during that period; and
(II)
each report submitted to the Secretary under section 810.12 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling) during that period.
(C)
Additional material in initial report
The first report required to be submitted by subparagraph (A) shall include the matters required by subparagraph (B) for the period beginning on March 25, 2015, and ending on the date of the enactment of this subsection.
(D)
Review by Secretary of State
The Secretary shall submit each report required by this paragraph to the Secretary of State for approval before submitting the report to the chairmen and ranking members of the appropriate congressional committees.
(E)
Form
Each report required by this paragraph shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(2)
Submission to Congress of applications and certain reports
The Secretary of Energy shall provide to the chairman and ranking member of each of the appropriate congressional committees an application for an authorization under subsection b.(2) that is pending before or has been approved by the Secretary, or a report submitted under section 810.12 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling), not later than 10 days after receiving a request for the application or report, as the case may be, from the chairman or ranking member of either such committee.
(3)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
.
