1.
Permanent resident status for Maria Isabel Bueso Barrera, Alberto Bueso Mendoza, and Karla Maria
Barrera De Bueso
(a)
In
general
Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1151
), Maria Isabel Bueso Barrera, Alberto Bueso Mendoza, and Karla Maria Barrera De Bueso shall each be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1154
) or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident.
(b)
Adjustment of
status
If Maria Isabel Bueso Barrera, Alberto Bueso Mendoza, or Karla Maria Barrera De Bueso enters the United States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), Maria Isabel Bueso Barrera, Alberto Bueso Mendoza, or Karla Maria Barrera De Bueso shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully in the United States and shall be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act
(
8 U.S.C. 1255
) as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Application and
payment of fees
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the applications for issuance of immigrant visas or the applications for adjustment of status are filed with appropriate fees not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Reduction of
immigrant visa numbers
Upon the granting of immigrant visas or permanent resident status to Maria Isabel Bueso Barrera, Alberto Bueso Mendoza, and Karla Maria Barrera De Bueso, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by three, during the current or next following fiscal year—
(1)
the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of birth of Maria Isabel Bueso Barrera, Alberto Bueso Mendoza, and Karla Maria Barrera De Bueso under section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1153(a)
); or
(2)
if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of birth of Maria Isabel Bueso Barrera, Alberto Bueso Mendoza, and Karla Maria Barrera De Bueso under section 202(e) of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1152(e)
).
(e)
PAYGO
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled
Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation
for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
