1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Aerial Incursion Repercussion Safety Act of 2020
or the
AIR Safety Act of 2020
.
2.
Study on effects of drone incursions on wildfire suppression
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Drone
The term
drone
means an unmanned aircraft system owned by a private individual or entity.
(2)
Drone incursion
The term
drone incursion
means the operation of a drone within any airspace for which the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration has issued a temporary flight restriction because of a wildfire.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
(4)
Wildfire suppression
The term
wildfire suppression
has the meaning given the term in section 46320(d) of title 49, United States Code.
(b)
Study required
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall conduct a study on the effects of drone incursions on wildfire suppression with respect to land managed by the Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture.
(c)
Study contents
In conducting the study required under subsection (b), the Secretary shall—
(1)
determine, for each of the 5 most recent calendar years—
(A)
the number of occurrences in which a drone incursion interfered with wildfire suppression; and
(B)
the effect of each occurrence described in subparagraph (A) on—
(i)
the length of time required to achieve complete suppression;
(ii)
the effectiveness of aerial firefighting responses; and
(iii)
the amounts expended by the Federal Government; and
(2)
evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of various actions to prevent drone incursions, including—
(A)
the use of reasonable force to disable, damage, or destroy a drone;
(B)
the seizure of a drone, including seizure with a net device; and
(C)
the dissemination of educational materials relating to the effects of drone incursions on wildfire suppression.
(d)
Report
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report describing—
(1)
the findings of the study required under subsection (b); and
(2)
any recommendations of the Secretary relating to those findings.
