1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting Child Care Providers and Families Affected by Coronavirus Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Coronavirus
The term
coronavirus
means coronavirus as defined in section 506 of the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2020 (
Public Law 116–123
).
(2)
COVID–19 public health emergency
The term
COVID–19 national emergency
means the national emergency declared by the President under the National Emergencies Act (
50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.) on March 13, 2020, with respect to coronavirus.
(3)
Eligible child care provider
The term
eligible child care provider
has the meaning given the term in section 658P of the Child Care Development and Block Grant Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 9858n
).
3.
Supplemental appropriation
The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for other purposes, namely:
Department of Health and Human Services
Administration for Children and Families
Payments to States for the child care and development block grant
For an additional amount for
Payments to States for the Child Care and Development Block Grant
, $4,000,000,000, to carry out the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 by enabling States to carry out activities including—
(1)
providing direct assistance to eligible child care providers so that reimbursement can be adjusted to be based on the number of enrolled children, rather than the number of children in attendance, with such providers, due to the absence of children or closure of providers, related to the COVID–19 public health emergency;
(2)
continuing payments to eligible child care providers when there are closures related to the emergency;
(3)
providing payments to eligible child care providers so that the providers can provide tuition or copayment assistance for children whose families are temporarily unable to continue making tuition payments or copayments due to the emergency;
(4)
providing payments to eligible child care providers to cover the cost of substitute educators who are needed due to the emergency;
(5)
providing payments to eligible child care providers to provide additional training to staff or to purchase supplies and services needed to keep the facilities of the eligible child care providers safe, sanitary, and operational; and
(6)
ensuring the children of frontline workers, needed as a result of the emergency, have access to care.
Children and families services programs
For an additional amount for
Children and Families Services Programs
, $1,000,000,000 for carrying out the Head Start Act by assisting Head Start programs (including Early Head Start programs)—
(1)
to provide educators with additional training or to purchase supplies and services needed to keep the facilities of the programs safe, sanitary, and operational;
(2)
to provide mental health supports, needed due to the COVID–19 public health emergency, to children in the programs and their families;
(3)
to provide services to the children and families remotely or through alternative delivery methods, including through the provision of needed technology for programs and families, due to the emergency;
(4)
to continue payments for salaries of staff during closures, and to provide the staff with hazard pay when applicable, due to the emergency;
(5)
without displacing children eligible for a Head Start program (including an Early Head Start program), or disrupting services provided to the families of such children, at the discretion of the grantee involved, to provide care to children of frontline workers needed as a result of the emergency regardless of the eligibility of the children; and
(6)
to provide other services needed as a result of the emergency.
4.
Emergency requirement
The amounts appropriated under section 3 are designated by Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (
2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)
).
