1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Providing Access to Tribal Health, Well-being, and Youth Safety Act of 2020
.
2.
Providing Access to Tribal Health, Well-being, and Youth Safety program
(a)
In general
Chapter 2
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 207
the following:
208.
Providing Access to Tribal Health, Well-being, and Youth Safety program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Indian tribe
The term
Indian tribe
has the meaning given the term in section 207(m)(1).
(2)
Program
The term
program
means the Providing Access to Tribal Health, Well-being, and Youth Safety program established under subsection (b).
(b)
Establishment
The Secretary shall carry out a grant program, to be known as the
Providing Access to Tribal Health, Well-being, and Youth Safety program
or the
PATHWAYS program
to provide grants to Indian tribes to carry out eligible activities described in subsection (d).
(c)
Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under the program, an Indian tribe shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(d)
Eligible activities
An Indian tribe may use funds from a grant under the program to carry out any of the following activities:
(1)
Construction, planning, and design of on-road and off-road trail facilities for pedestrians, bicyclists, and other nonmotorized forms of transportation, including sidewalks, bicycle infrastructure, pedestrian and bicycle signals, traffic calming techniques, lighting and other safety-related infrastructure, and transportation projects to achieve compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.).
(2)
Construction, planning, and design of infrastructure-related projects and systems that will provide safe routes for non-drivers, including children, older adults, and individuals with disabilities, to access daily needs.
(3)
Conversion and use of abandoned railroad corridors for trails for pedestrians, bicyclists, or other nonmotorized transportation users.
(4)
Construction of turnouts, overlooks, and viewing areas.
(5)
Community improvement activities, including—
(A)
historic preservation and rehabilitation of historic transportation facilities; and
(B)
vegetation management practices in transportation rights-of-way to improve roadway safety, prevent against invasive species, or provide erosion control.
(6)
Construction, planning, and design of infrastructure-related projects that—
(A)
will substantially improve the ability of students to walk and bicycle to school, including sidewalk improvements, traffic calming and speed reduction improvements, pedestrian and bicycle crossing improvements, on-street bicycle facilities, and traffic diversion improvements; and
(B)
are on a public road or any bicycle or pedestrian pathway or trail in the vicinity of a school.
(7)
Noninfrastructure-related activities to encourage walking and bicycling to school, including—
(A)
public awareness campaigns and outreach to press and community leaders;
(B)
student sessions on bicycle and pedestrian safety, health, and environment; and
(C)
funding for training, volunteers, and managers of safe routes to school programs.
(e)
Federal share
The Federal share of the cost of an activity carried out with funds from a grant under the program shall be 100 percent.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated out of the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 201(b)(1) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by striking
and the Federal lands access program
and inserting
, the Federal lands access program, and the Providing Access to Tribal Health, Well-being, and Youth Safety program under section 208
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 2
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 207
the following:
208. Providing Access to Tribal Health, Well-being, and Youth Safety program.
.
