1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DHS Joint Requirements Council Act of 2018
.
2.
Joint Requirements Council
(a)
In general
Title VII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 341
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
710.
Joint Requirements Council
(a)
Definition of joint requirement
In this section, the term
joint requirement
means a condition or capability of multiple operating components of the Department that is required to be met or possessed by a system, product, service, result, or component to satisfy a contract, standard, specification, or other formally imposed document.
(b)
Department leadership councils
(1)
Establishment
The Secretary may establish such Department leadership councils as the Secretary determines necessary to ensure coordination and improve programs and activities of the Department.
(2)
Function
A Department leadership council shall—
(A)
serve as a coordinating forum;
(B)
advise the Secretary and Deputy Secretary on Department strategy, operations, and guidance;
(C)
establish policies to reduce duplication in programs; and
(D)
consider and report on such other matters as the Secretary or Deputy Secretary may direct.
(3)
Relationship to other forums
The Secretary or Deputy Secretary may delegate the authority to direct the implementation of any decision or guidance resulting from the action of a Department leadership council to any office, component, coordinator, or other senior official of the Department.
(c)
Joint Requirements Council
(1)
Establishment
There Secretary shall establish within the Department a Joint Requirements Council.
(2)
Mission
In addition to other matters assigned to it by the Secretary and Deputy Secretary, the Joint Requirements Council shall—
(A)
identify, assess, and validate joint requirements (including existing systems and associated capability gaps) to meet mission needs of the Department;
(B)
ensure that appropriate efficiencies are made among life-cycle cost, schedule, and performance objectives, and procurement quantity objectives, in the establishment and approval of joint requirements; and
(C)
make prioritized capability recommendations for the joint requirements validated under subparagraph (A) to the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary, or the chairperson of a Department leadership council designated by the Secretary to review decisions of the Joint Requirements Council.
(3)
Chairperson
The Secretary shall appoint a chairperson of the Joint Requirements Council, for a term of not more than 2 years, from among senior officials of the Department as designated by the Secretary.
(4)
Composition
The Joint Requirements Council shall be composed of senior officials representing components of the Department and other senior officials as designated by the Secretary.
(5)
Relationship to future years Homeland Security Program
The Secretary shall ensure that the Future Years Homeland Security Program required under section 874 is consistent with the recommendations of the Joint Requirements Council required under paragraph (2)(C), as affirmed by the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary, or the chairperson of a Department leadership council designated by the Secretary under that paragraph.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of sections in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–296
; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 709 the following:
Sec. 710. Joint Requirements Council.
.
