1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Chiropractic Health Parity for Military Beneficiaries Act
.
2.
Chiropractic health care services from the Department of Defense for certain covered beneficiaries
(a)
Plan required
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall complete development of a plan to provide chiropractic health care services and benefits for eligible covered beneficiaries as a permanent part of the TRICARE program.
(b)
Contents of plan
The plan developed under subsection (a) shall require that a contract entered into under section 1097 of title 10, United States Code, for the delivery of health care services shall—
(1)
include the delivery of chiropractic services to eligible covered beneficiaries;
(2)
require that chiropractic services may be provided only by a doctor of chiropractic; and
(3)
provide that an eligible covered beneficiary may select and have direct access to a doctor of chiropractic without referral by another health practitioner.
(c)
Implementation of plan
The plan developed under subsection (a) shall provide for implementation of the plan to begin not later than 60 days after the date on which the plan is completed.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
chiropractic services
—
(A)
includes diagnosis (including by diagnostic x-ray tests), evaluation and management, and therapeutic services for the treatment of a patient's health condition, including neuromusculoskeletal conditions and the subluxation complex, and such other services determined appropriate by the Secretary of Defense and as authorized under State law; and
(B)
does not include the use of drugs or surgery.
(2)
The term
covered beneficiary
has the meaning given that term in section 1072(5) of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
The term
eligible covered beneficiary
means a covered beneficiary excluding a dependent of a member or former member of a uniformed service.
(4)
The term
dependent
has the meaning given that term in section 1072(2) of title 10, United States Code.
(5)
The term
doctor of chiropractic
means only a doctor of chiropractic who is licensed as a doctor of chiropractic, chiropractic physician, or chiropractor by a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States.
(6)
The term
TRICARE program
has the meaning given that term in section 1072(7) of title 10, United States Code.
