1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Election Systems Integrity Act
or the
ESIA
.
2.
Information sharing with respect to ownership of election service providers
(a)
In general
Each election service provider shall submit to the Secretary and the Commission the following:
(1)
Not later than the date that is 90 days after the later of the date of the enactment of this section or the date that a person first becomes an election service provider, a report listing the identity of any foreign national (as defined in section 319(b) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (
52 U.S.C. 30121(b)
)) who directly or indirectly owns or controls such election service provider, and the percentage of such ownership.
(2)
Not later than 90 days after the date of any material change in ownership or control of such election service provider, a notice of such change and an update of any information previously reported under paragraph (1).
(b)
Civil penalty for failure To report
If an election service provider fails to submit a report required under subsection (a), the Attorney General may, after notice and opportunity for hearing, impose a civil fine of $10,000.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Election Assistance Commission.
(2)
Election service provider
The term
election service provider
means any person providing, supporting, or maintaining an election system on behalf of an election agency, such as a contractor or vendor.
(3)
Election system
The term
election system
means a voting system, an election management system, a voter registration website or database, an electronic pollbook, a system for tabulating or reporting election results, an election agency communications system, or any other information system (as defined in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code) that the Secretary, in consultation with the Commission, identifies as central to the management, support, or administration of a Federal election.
(4)
Federal election
The term
Federal election
means a general, special, primary, or runoff election for the office of President or Vice President, or of a Senator or Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress that is conducted by an election agency.
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
