1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DHS Cyber Incident Response Teams Act of 2018
.
2.
Department of Homeland Security cyber incident response teams
(a)
In general
Section 227 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 148
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (d)(1)(B)(iv), by inserting
, including cybersecurity specialists
after
entities
;
(2)
by redesignating subsections (f) through (m) as subsections (g) through (n), respectively;
(3)
by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
(f)
Cyber incident response teams
(1)
In general
The Center shall maintain cyber hunt and incident response teams for the purpose of providing, as appropriate and upon request, assistance, including—
(A)
assistance to asset owners and operators in restoring services following a cyber incident;
(B)
identification of cybersecurity risk and unauthorized cyber activity;
(C)
mitigation strategies to prevent, deter, and protect against cybersecurity risks;
(D)
recommendations to asset owners and operators for improving overall network and control systems security to lower cybersecurity risks, and other recommendations, as appropriate; and
(E)
such other capabilities as the Under Secretary appointed under section 103(a)(1)(H) determines appropriate.
(2)
Cybersecurity specialists
The Secretary may include cybersecurity specialists from the private sector on cyber hunt and incident response teams.
(3)
Associated metrics
The Center shall continually assess and evaluate the cyber incident response teams and the operations of those cyber incident response teams using robust metrics.
(4)
Report
At the conclusion of each of the first 4 fiscal years after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Center shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report that includes—
(A)
information relating to the metrics used for evaluation and assessment of the cyber incident response teams and operations under paragraph (3), including the resources and staffing of those cyber incident response teams; and
(B)
for the period covered by the report—
(i)
the total number of incident response requests received;
(ii)
the number of incident response tickets opened; and
(iii)
a statement of—
(I)
all interagency staffing of incident response teams; and
(II)
the interagency collaborations established to support incident response teams.
; and
(4)
in subsection (g), as so redesignated—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
, or any team or activity of the Center,
after
Center
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
, or any team or activity of the Center,
after
Center
.
(b)
No additional funds authorized
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the requirements of this Act and the amendments made by this Act. Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated.
