1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Border Safety and Security Act of 2023
.
2.
Suspension of entry of aliens
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
In general
Except as otherwise provided, the terms used in this section have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
).
(2)
Covered alien
The term
covered alien
means an alien seeking entry to the United States who is inadmissible under paragraph (6) or (7) of section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1182(a)
).
(3)
Operational control
The term
operational control
has the meaning given such term in section 2(b) of the Secure Fence Act of 2006 (
8 U.S.C. 1701
note).
(b)
Authority To suspend entry of aliens at borders of the United States
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the Secretary of Homeland Security determines, in the discretion of the Secretary, that the suspension of the entry of covered aliens at an international land or maritime border of the United States is necessary in order to achieve operational control over such border, the Secretary may prohibit, in whole or in part, the entry of covered aliens at such border for such period as the Secretary determines is necessary for such purpose.
(c)
Required suspension of entry of aliens
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall prohibit the entry of covered aliens for any period during which the Secretary cannot—
(1)
detain such covered aliens in accordance with section 235(b)(1)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(1)(B)
); or
(2)
place such covered aliens in a program consistent with section 235(b)(2)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(2)(C)
).
(d)
Enforcement by State Attorneys General
The attorney general of a State, or another authorized State officer, alleging a violation of a subsection (c) that affects such State or its residents, may bring an action against the Secretary of Homeland Security on behalf of the residents of such State in an appropriate United States district court to obtain appropriate injunctive relief.
