1.
Policy research center on drought prevention, preparedness, response, and mitigation
Subtitle C of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (
7 U.S.C. 3151 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after section 1419D the following:
1419E.
Policy research center on drought prevention, preparedness, response, and mitigation
(a)
In general
Consistent with this section, the Secretary shall enter into multiyear cooperative agreements of up to 5 years each with a policy research center described in subsection (b) to conduct research and education programs that—
(1)
are objective, operationally independent, and external to the Federal Government;
(2)
concern the effect of public policies and trade agreements on—
(A)
the farm and agricultural sectors (including commodities, livestock, dairy, and specialty crops);
(B)
the environment;
(C)
rural families, households, and economies; and
(D)
consumers, food, and nutrition; and
(3)
focus on matters relating to drought prevention, preparedness, response, and mitigation.
(b)
Policy research center described
A policy research center referred to in subsection (a) that is eligible to apply for funding under that subsection is a State agricultural experiment station, college or university, or other public research institution or organization that has a history of providing objective, scientific information to Federal agencies and the public to support and enhance efficient, accurate implementation of Federal drought preparedness and drought response programs, including interagency thresholds used to determine eligibility for mitigation or emergency assistance.
(c)
Preference
In making awards under this section, the Secretary shall give a preference to policy research centers that have information, analysis, and research relating to drought mitigation.
(d)
Activities
Funding may be provided under this section for disciplinary and interdisciplinary research and education concerning policy research activities consistent with this section, including activities that—
(1)
support weekly production of and enhancements to the United States Drought Monitor;
(2)
support other products and services to help better prepare and respond to drought, including—
(A)
work carried out in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture;
(B)
through the expansion of drought resilience and monitoring tools that span across disciplines from climatology and remote sensing to planning and geospatial analysis; and
(C)
communications products and services; or
(3)
support climate and drought resilience and profitability on working agriculture lands, targeting marginal lands and Tribal regions in the western United States, including efforts to provide tools to address water quantity.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $19,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2024 through 2028, to remain available until September 30, 2028.
.
