1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disaster Relief and Resilience Act
.
2.
Certain carryforwards of general business credit treated as transferrable credits for taxpayers affected by Federally declared disasters in 2024
(a)
In general
For purposes of
section 6418
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, notwithstanding subsection (f)(1)(C) thereof, so much of the amount of the applicable general business credit carryforwards as does not exceed the eligible expenditures made by the taxpayer during the taxable year shall be treated as an eligible credit.
(b)
Applicable general business credit carryforwards
For purposes of this section, the term
applicable general business credit carryforwards
means, with respect to any taxable year, the sum of the amounts described in
section 38(a)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which—
(1)
are carried to any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2023, and
(2)
attributable to any credit described in clauses (ii) and (ix) of section 6418(f)(1)(A) of such Code.
(c)
Eligible expenditures
For purposes of this section—
(1)
In general
The term
eligible expenditures
means expenses by the taxpayer which are paid or incurred before January 1, 2028, for the purpose of carrying out a trade or business in a qualified disaster area.
(2)
Qualified disaster area
The term
qualified disaster area
means any area with respect to which a major disaster was declared after December 31, 2023, and before the date of the enactment of this Act by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act.
(3)
Application to consolidated groups
All members of an affiliated group filing a consolidated return shall be treated as one taxpayer.
(4)
No registration required
Notwithstanding
section 6418(g)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary's delegate) shall not require registration with respect to the portion of any applicable general business credit carryforwards which relates to a taxable year beginning with or before the most recent taxable year for which the taxpayer has executed a Revenue Agent Report (including Form 4549 (relating to income tax examination changes) or any similar form).
