1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DOE and SBA Research Act
.
2.
Department of Energy and Small Business Administration joint research and development activities
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (in this section referred to as the
covered officials
) shall enter into a memorandum of understanding or other appropriate agreement to carry out cross-cutting and collaborative research and development activities focused on the joint advancement of Department of Energy and Small Business Administration mission requirements and priorities.
(b)
Memorandum of understanding or agreement
The covered officials shall carry out and coordinate the activities described in subsection (a) by entering into one or more memoranda of understanding or other appropriate agreements, as jointly determined by the covered officials.
(c)
Inclusion of small business concerns
In carrying out the activities described in subsection (a), the covered officials shall ensure the inclusion of small business concerns (as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
)) in such activities, as appropriate.
(d)
Other requirements
In carrying out the activities described in subsection (a), the covered officials may—
(1)
carry out reimbursable agreements between the Department of Energy, the Small Business Administration, and appropriate entities in order to maximize the effectiveness of research and development activities carried out pursuant to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b); and
(2)
collaborate with other Federal agencies as appropriate to carry out such activities.
(e)
Report
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the covered officials shall submit to Congress a report on activities carried out pursuant to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b) that includes the following:
(1)
Coordination between the covered officials involved in such activities.
(2)
Potential opportunities to expand the technical capabilities of the Department of Energy and the Small Business Administration.
(3)
Collaborative research achievements.
(4)
Areas of future mutually beneficial success.
(5)
Continuation of coordination activities between the Department of Energy and the Small Business Administration.
(f)
Research security
The activities carried out pursuant to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b) shall be applied in a manner consistent with subtitle D of title VI of the Research and Development, Competition, and Innovation Act (
Public Law 117–167
;
42 U.S.C. 19231 et seq.
).
3.
Compliance with CUTGO
No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act or the amendments made by this Act.
