1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fishery Improvement to Streamline untimely regulatory Hurdles post Emergency Situation Act
or the
FISHES Act
.
2.
Approval or denial of spend plans
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of a spend plan submitted to the Director by the Secretary for approval by the Director pursuant to section 312(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (
16 U.S.C. 1861a(a)
), the Director shall approve or deny such spend plan not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary submits such spend plan to the Director for approval.
(b)
Denial of spend plan
(1)
In general
If the Director denies a spend plan under subsection (a) or paragraph (3) of this subsection, the Director shall, not later than 15 days after the date of such denial, return such denied spend plan to the Secretary with a description of the changes to such denied spend plan that are necessary for the Director to approve such denied spend plan.
(2)
Resubmission of spend plan
Upon receipt of a denied spend plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary, in consultation with the relevant requester with an affirmative fishery resource disaster determination of the spend plan, shall make the necessary changes to such spend plan described by the Director under paragraph (1) and resubmit such spend plan to the Director for approval.
(3)
Review of resubmitted spend plan
Not later than 15 days after the date of the receipt of a spend plan under paragraph (2), the Director shall approve or deny such spend plan.
(c)
Approval of spend plan
If the Director approves a spend plan under subsection (a) or subsection (b)(3), the Director shall—
(1)
make such approval publicly available on the website of the Office of Management and Budget; and
(2)
include in such approval—
(A)
the date on which communication regarding such spend plan was initiated between the Director and the Secretary;
(B)
if applicable—
(i)
the date of each denial of such spend plan under subsection (a) and subsection (b)(3); and
(ii)
the date of each resubmission of such spend plan under subsection (b)(2); and
(C)
the date on which the Director approved such spend plan.
(d)
Expediting disaster review
Section 312(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (
16 U.S.C. 1861a(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (4)(B), by amending clause (ii) to read as follows:
(ii)
Time frame
The Secretary shall complete the review described in clause (i) not later than 30 days after the Secretary receives a complete request for a fishery resource disaster determination.
; and
(2)
in paragraph (6)(F)(i), by striking
90
and inserting
30
.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Affirmative fishery resource disaster determination
The term
affirmative fishery resource disaster determination
means a determination by the Secretary under section 312(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (
16 U.S.C. 1861a(a)
) that a fishery resource disaster has occurred.
(2)
Fishery resource disaster
The term
fishery resource disaster
has the meaning given the term in section 312(a)(1)(C) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (
16 U.S.C. 1861a(a)(1)(C)
).
(3)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce.
(5)
Spend plan
The term
spend plan
means a spend plan submitted to the Secretary under section 312(a)(6)(D) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (
16 U.S.C. 1861a(a)(6)(D)
) by a requester with an affirmative fishery resource disaster determination.
