1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Meals for At-Risk Americans Act of 2023
.
2.
Assistance for State restaurant meals programs
(a)
In general
Section 11 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2020
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(y)
Assistance for State restaurant meals programs
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Digital application
The term
digital application
means a web-based platform that allows for the digital submission of applications.
(B)
Enhanced technical assistance
The term
enhanced technical assistance
means enhanced detailed educational guidance for States to learn how to set up a restaurant meals program.
(C)
Restaurant meals program
The term
restaurant meals program
means a State option restaurant program carried out under subsection (e)(25).
(2)
Rulemaking
(A)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall promulgate a rule, which may be an interim final rule, that establishes—
(i)
guidance for States seeking to establish a restaurant meals program; and
(ii)
a digital application that a State may use to submit a State plan under subsection (e)(25) for establishing a restaurant meals program.
(B)
Effectiveness of interim final rules
An interim final rule promulgated under subparagraph (A) shall be immediately effective on publication in the Federal Register without requiring the Secretary to demonstrate good cause, notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of section 553(b) of title 5, United States Code.
(C)
Opportunity for comment and hearing
An interim final rule promulgated under subparagraph (A) shall give interested persons the opportunity to comment and to request a hearing.
(D)
Final rule
After the conclusion of any comment period or hearing under subparagraph (C), the Secretary shall issue a final rule in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
State application status
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall notify a State agency seeking to establish a restaurant meals program of the status of the application of the State agency, including whether the application is in review, approved, or denied.
(B)
Reason for denial
If an application described in subparagraph (A) is denied, the Secretary shall provide a statement explaining the reasons for the denial.
(4)
Restaurant application status
The Secretary shall use a real-time data sharing process established by the Secretary to provide to States frequent status updates on the status of applications to the Secretary from restaurants in the State to participate in the restaurant meals program of that State, which shall include an explanation for any denial of a restaurant application.
(5)
Enhanced technical assistance
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall provide enhanced technical assistance to States seeking to establish a restaurant meals program, including assistance to establish a digital application for use by the State for the purpose of collecting applications from restaurants in the State.
.
(b)
Program requirements
Section 11(e)(25)(A) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2020(e)(25)(A)
) is amended—
(1)
in clause (ii), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); and
(3)
by inserting after clause (ii) the following:
(iii)
whether the State agency will offer a digital application (as defined in subsection (y)(1)) as an option for restaurants in the State seeking to apply to participate in the program; and
.
