1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Federal Social Media Research Act
.
2.
Short-term study
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General of the United States, in partnership with any other Federal agency the Comptroller General may designate, shall study the impact of social media technologies on the mental and physical health of social media users under age 18, with particular attention to assessing current circumstances and expected trends. Such study shall aim to assess in particular any relationship between social media use patterns and the following medical conditions:
(1)
Suicidality.
(2)
Anxiety.
(3)
Depression.
(4)
Eating disorders.
(5)
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
(6)
Gender dysphoria.
(b)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report to Congress on the study required under subsection (a).
(c)
Appropriations
Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there is appropriated to the Comptroller General, for fiscal year 2023, $1,000,000, to remain available until expended, to carry out the study described in this section.
3.
Longitudinal study
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General of the United States, in partnership with any other Federal agency the Comptroller General may designate, shall study the impact of social media technologies on the mental and physical health of a cohort of social media users initially drawn from the population of such users under age 18, with particular attention to the long-term effects of social media technology use on the health of such users. Such study shall aim to assess in particular any relationship between social media use patterns and the medical conditions listed in section 2(a).
(b)
Report
Not later than 10 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report to Congress on the study required under subsection (a).
(c)
Appropriations
Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there is appropriated to the Comptroller General, for fiscal year 2023, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended, to carry out the study described in this section.
