1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Halting Enrichment of Russian Oligarchs and Industry Allies of Moscow's Schemes to Leverage its Abject Villainy Abroad Act of 2023
or the
HEROIAM SLAVA Act of 2023
.
2.
Blocking of property of Russian state-owned entities
(a)
In general
On and after the date that is 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall exercise all of the powers granted to the President under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
) to the extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in property of any entity the President determines is owned or controlled by the Government of the Russian Federation if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person.
(b)
Implementation; penalties
(1)
Implementation
The President may exercise all authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this section.
(2)
Penalties
A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1705
) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
(c)
Exception relating to importation of goods
(1)
In general
The requirement to block and prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in property under subsection (a) shall not include the authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
(2)
Good
In this subsection, the term
good
means any article, natural or man-made substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.
(d)
United states person defined
In this section, the term
United States person
means—
(1)
an individual who is a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States;
(2)
an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity; or
(3)
any person in the United States.
