1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bolstering Indo-Pacific Capabilities Act of 2024
.
2.
Inclusion of Japan and the Republic of Korea in contested logistics demonstration and prototyping program
Section 842(h)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (
Public Law 118–31
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) as subparagraphs (D), (F), and (G), respectively;
(2)
by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph:
(C)
Japan;
; and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (D), as redesignated by paragraph (1), the following new subparagraph:
(E)
the Republic of Korea;
.
3.
Review of Department of Defense capabilities to support operations in the Indo-Pacific region in a contested logistics environment
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review of the planning and capabilities of the Department of Defense to support operations in the region of the Indo-Pacific Command in a contested logistics environment (as defined in section 2926(h) of title 10, United States Code).
(b)
Elements of review
The review required by subsection (a) shall—
(1)
assess the role of each military service with the joint force and with respect to the other military services in a contested logistics environment;
(2)
assess the ability of each military service to enable effective maintenance and repair activities in a contested logistics environment;
(3)
assess the ability of each military service to preposition or store materials needed to enable rapid surge capability or to support operations in a contested logistics environment;
(4)
assess the ability of each military service to identify, develop, demonstrate, and field effective and efficient means of conducting repairs of equipment when permanent repair facilities are inaccessible; and
(5)
identify the resources or the need for any additional resources required by the Secretary of Defense to reduce or mitigate the risks associated with operations in a contested logistics environment.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report detailing the results of the review required by subsection (a).
(2)
Form
The report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
4.
Exception to restrictions on repair and maintenance of naval vessels in foreign shipyards for scheduled maintenance and repair exercises
Section 8680(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), during each fiscal year, scheduled maintenance or repair may be performed on not more than six naval vessels described in paragraph (1) outside the United States or Guam if—
(A)
the period for the maintenance or repair is less than 90 consecutive days in duration; and
(B)
the maintenance or repair is performed as part of an exercise to develop and improve the ability to perform maintenance or repair during wartime or periods of increased international tension.
.
5.
Congressional defense committees defined
In this Act, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given the term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code.
