1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Adopt the Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation model Act
or the
Adopt GREET Act
.
2.
Definition of Administrator
In this Act, the term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
3.
Lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions for approved fuel pathways
(a)
In general
Subject to subsection (b), not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and not later than every 5 years thereafter, the Administrator shall update the methodology used by the Environmental Protection Agency in lifecycle analyses with respect to greenhouse gas emissions that result from a fuel pathway to which a D code has been assigned pursuant to a petition described in section 80.1416 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), that has been approved by the Administrator.
(b)
Requirements
(1)
First update
In carrying out the first update required under subsection (a), the Administrator shall adopt the most recent Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation model (commonly referred to as the
GREET model
) developed by Argonne National Laboratory.
(2)
Subsequent updates
In carrying out the second and each subsequent update required under subsection (a), the Administrator shall—
(A)
as necessary, adopt, review, or update a methodology determined to be appropriate by the Administrator; or
(B)
adopt the methodology described in paragraph (1).
(3)
Establishment of fuel pathways
For any fuel pathway to which the Administrator assigns a D code pursuant to a petition described in section 80.1416 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), that is approved by the Administrator after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall, not later than 90 days after the date on which the Administrator assigns that code, adopt the methodology described in paragraph (1) for purposes of modeling lifecycle analyses with respect to greenhouse gas emissions that result from that fuel pathway.
(c)
Report
If the Administrator fails to carry out subsection (b)(2) before the applicable deadline described in subsection (a), the Administrator shall submit to the Committees on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, Energy and Natural Resources, and Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committees on Agriculture, Energy and Commerce, and Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a report describing the reasons for the failure to carry out subsection (b)(2), which may include a determination by the Administrator that the methodology adopted or updated in a previous update under subsection (a) remains the most current methodology based on available data, research, and technology.
