1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2024
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that expeditious consideration of certifications of letters of offer to sell defense articles, defense services, design and construction services, and major defense equipment to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan under section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2776(b)
) is fully consistent with United States security and foreign policy interests and the objectives of world peace and security.
3.
Enhanced defense cooperation
(a)
Arms Export Control Act
(1)
In general
During the 3-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan shall be treated as if it were a country listed in the provisions of law described in paragraph (2) for purposes of applying and administering such provisions of law.
(2)
Covered provisions of law
The provisions of law described in this paragraph are as follows:
(A)
Subsections (b)(2), (d)(2)(B), (d)(3)(A)(i), and (d)(5) of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 2753
).
(B)
Subsections (e)(2)(A), (h)(1)(A), and (h)(2) of section 21 of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 2761
).
(C)
Subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(6), (c), and (d)(2)(A) of section 36 of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 2776
).
(D)
Section 62(c)(1) of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 2796a(c)(1)
).
(E)
Section 63(a)(2) of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 2796b(a)(2)
).
(b)
Establishment of capabilities
(1)
Report
(A)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination with the Commander of Central Command, work cooperatively with the Minister of Defense of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to establish or further capabilities for countering air and missile threats from Iran and its terrorist proxies, including the threat from unmanned aerial systems, that threaten the United States, Jordan, and other allies and partners of the United States.
(B)
Protection of sensitive technology and information
The Secretary shall ensure that any activities carried out under this subsection are conducted in a manner that appropriately protects sensitive technology and information and the national security interests of the United States and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
(2)
Limitation and report
Activities may not be carried out under paragraph (1) until after the Secretary submits to the appropriate congressional committees a report setting forth the following:
(A)
A memorandum of agreement between the United States and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan regarding sharing of research and development costs for the capabilities described in clause (i) and any supporting documents.
(B)
A certification that the memorandum of agreement—
(i)
requires sharing of costs of projects, including in-kind support, between the United States and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan;
(ii)
establishes a framework to negotiate the rights to any intellectual property developed under the memorandum of agreement; and
(iii)
requires the United States Government to receive semiannual reports on expenditure of funds, if any, by the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, including a description of what the funds have been used for, when funds were expended, and an identification of entities that expended the funds.
(3)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(c)
Middle East integrated air and missile defense
(1)
In general
Pursuant to section 1658 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (
Public Law 117–263
), the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of State and with the concurrence of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, develop a plan to bolster the participation of Jordan in a multinational integrated air and missile defense architecture to protect the people, infrastructure, and territory of Jordan from cruise and ballistic missiles, manned and unmanned aerial systems, and rocket attacks from Iran and groups linked to Iran.
(2)
Briefing
Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary and the Commander of United States Central Command shall provide the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a briefing on the progress of the Department of Defense towards bolstering the participation of Jordan in a multinational integrated air and missile defense architecture, and provide a list of requirements, with cost estimates, for strengthening the defense of Jordan within this architecture.
(d)
Sunset
The authority in this subsection to carry out activities described in subsection (b), and to provide support described in subsection (c), shall expire on December 31, 2028.
4.
Memorandum of Understanding
Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of State is authorized to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to increase economic support funds, military cooperation, including joint military exercises, personnel exchanges, support for international peacekeeping missions, and enhanced strategic dialogue.
