1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
VA Abortion Transparency Act of 2024
.
2.
Report on abortions facilitated by the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than quarterly thereafter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on abortions facilitated by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(b)
Elements
Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to, in the case of the initial report, the 90-day period preceding the date of the report, and in the case of each subsequent report, the quarter covered by the report, the following:
(1)
The total number of abortions facilitated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, disaggregated by—
(A)
whether the abortion was conducted at a medical center of the Department or through a non-Department provider;
(B)
whether the abortion was surgical or conducted using mifepristone or another abortion drug;
(C)
whether the abortion was conducted for a veteran or a dependent of a veteran;
(D)
the number of weeks at which the abortion was conducted;
(E)
the exception under the laws administered by the Secretary under which the abortion was justified to be conducted; and
(F)
the Veterans Integrated Service Network and State in which the abortion was conducted.
(2)
Total expenditures for facilitating abortion procedures.
(3)
Total expenditures for staff training related to the facilitation of abortion.
(4)
Total expenditures for infrastructure improvements related to the facilitation of abortion.
(5)
Total expenditures related to the facilitation of abortion that are paid out of the Cost of War Toxic Exposures Fund under section 324 of title 38, United States Code, and an explanation as to why the Cost of War Toxic Exposures Fund was used for such expenditures.
(6)
The budget line item or line items of the Department through which the Secretary funds the facilitation of abortion.
(c)
Exclusion of individually identifiable patient information
Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall exclude any individually identifiable patient information.
