1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Women-Owned Small Business Program Transparency Act
or the
WOSB Program Transparency Act
.
2.
Report on small business concerns owned and controlled by women
(a)
In general
Section 8(m) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(m)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(9)
Report
Not later than May 1, 2023, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report on small business concerns owned and controlled by women. Such report shall include, for the fiscal year preceding the date of the report, the following:
(A)
The total number of concerns certified as small business concerns owned and controlled by women, disaggregated by the number of concerns certified by—
(i)
the Administrator; or
(ii)
a national certifying entity approved by the Administrator.
(B)
The amount of fees, if any, charged by each national certifying entity for such certification.
(C)
The total dollar amount and total percentage of prime contracts awarded to small business concerns owned and controlled by women pursuant to paragraph (2) or pursuant to a waiver granted under paragraph (3).
(D)
The total dollar amount and total percentage of prime contracts awarded to small business concerns owned and controlled by women pursuant to paragraphs (7) and (8).
(E)
With respect to a contract incorrectly awarded pursuant to this subsection because it was awarded based on an industry in which small business concerns owned and controlled by women are not underrepresented—
(i)
the number of such contracts;
(ii)
the Federal agencies that issued such contracts; and
(iii)
any steps taken by Administrator to train the personnel of such Federal agency on the use of the authority provided under this subsection.
(F)
With respect to an examination described in paragraph (5)(B)—
(i)
the number of examinations due because of recertification requirements and the actual number of such examinations conducted; and
(ii)
the number of examinations conducted for any other reason.
(G)
The number of small business concerns owned and controlled by women that were found to be ineligible to be awarded a contract under this subsection as a result of an examination conducted pursuant to paragraph (5)(B) or failure to request an examination pursuant to section 127.400 of title 13, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor rule).
(H)
The number of small business concerns owned and controlled by women that were decertified.
(I)
Any other information the Administrator determines necessary.
.
(b)
Technical amendment
Section 8(m)(2)(C) of the Small Business Act is amended by striking
paragraph (3)
and inserting
paragraph (4)
.
