1.
Requirements for amphibious passenger vessels
(a)
Regulations required
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall issue regulations for amphibious passenger vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, as defined in section 2.38 of title 33, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act).
(b)
Deadline for compliance
The regulations issued under subsection (a) shall take effect not later than 24 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Requirements
The regulations required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A requirement that operators of amphibious passenger vessels provide reserve buoyancy for such vessels through passive means, including watertight compartmentalization, built-in flotation, or such other means as determined appropriate by the Commandant, in order to ensure that such vessels remain afloat and upright in the event of flooding, including when carrying a full complement of passengers and crew.
(2)
A requirement that an operator of an amphibious passenger vessel—
(A)
review and notate the forecast of the National Weather Service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the logbook of the vessel before getting underway and periodically while underway;
(B)
proceed to the nearest harbor or safe refuge in any case in which a watch or warning is issued for wind speeds exceeding the wind speed equivalent used to certify the stability of such amphibious passenger vessel; and
(C)
maintain and monitor a weather monitor radio receiver at the operator station of the vessel that is capable of being automatically activated by the warning alarm device of the National Weather Service.
(3)
A requirement that—
(A)
operators of amphibious passenger vessels inform passengers that seat belts may not be worn during waterborne operations;
(B)
before the commencement of waterborne operations, a crew member shall visually check that the seatbelt of each passenger is unbuckled; and
(C)
operators or crew maintain a log recording the actions described in subparagraphs (A) and (B).
(4)
A requirement for annual training for operators and crew of amphibious passengers vessels, including—
(A)
training for personal flotation and seat belt requirements, verifying the integrity of the vessel at the onset of each waterborne departure, identification of weather hazards, and use of National Weather Service resources prior to operation; and
(B)
training for crew to respond to emergency situations, including flooding, engine compartment fires, man-overboard situations, and in water emergency egress procedures.
(d)
Consideration
In issuing the regulations required under subsection (a), the Commandant shall consider whether personal flotation devices should be required for the duration of the waterborne transit of an amphibious passenger vessel.
(e)
Interim requirements
Beginning on the date on which the regulations under subsection (a) are issued, the Commandant shall require that operators of amphibious passenger vessels that are not in compliance with such regulations shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1)
Remove the canopies and any window coverings of such vessels for waterborne operations, or install in such vessels a canopy that does not restrict horizontal or vertical escape by passengers in the event of flooding or sinking.
(2)
If a canopy and window covering are removed from any such vessel pursuant to paragraph (1), require that all passengers wear a personal flotation device approved by the Coast Guard before the onset of waterborne operations of such vessel.
(3)
Reengineer such vessels to permanently close all unnecessary access plugs and reduce all through-hull penetrations to the minimum number and size necessary for operation.
(4)
Install in such vessels independently powered electric bilge pumps that are capable of dewatering such vessels at the volume of the largest remaining penetration in order to supplement an operable Higgins pump or a dewatering pump of equivalent or greater capacity.
(5)
Install in such vessels not fewer than 4 independently powered bilge alarms.
(6)
Conduct an in-water inspection of any such vessel after each time a through-hull penetration of such vessel has been removed or uncovered.
(7)
Verify through an in-water inspection the watertight integrity of any such vessel at the outset of each waterborne departure of such vessel.
(8)
Install underwater LED lights that activate automatically in an emergency.
(9)
Otherwise comply with any other provisions of the circular titled
Navigation and Vessel Inspection Circular 1–01
in the inspection, configuration, and operation of such vessels.
