1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Wildfire Response Improvement Act
.
2.
Fire management assistance program policy
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall issue such regulations as are necessary to update the categories of eligibility and timelines for the fire management assistance program under section 420 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5187
) to be, to the maximum extent practicable, the same as such categories and timelines under the public assistance program under section 406 of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 5172
).
3.
Changes to public assistance policy guide
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall issue such regulations as are necessary to update the Public Assistance Program and Policy Guide of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to include guidance on the wildfire-specific challenges, including debris removal, emergency protective measures, and the resulting toxicity of drinking water resources.
4.
Mitigation benefit-cost analysis
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall conduct a review of the benefit cost analysis criteria for mitigation projects under sections 203 and 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5133
; 5170c) to consider a broader range of factors, including—
(1)
the establishment of a benefit cost analysis pre-calculated benefits critereon for common defensible space mitigation projects;
(2)
projects that use nature-based infrastructure;
(3)
considerations for ecological and societal health;
(4)
carbon sequestration;
(5)
improved water quality; and
(6)
lessening disaster impact on traditionally underserved communities.
(b)
Updated criteria
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall issue such regulations as are necessary to—
(1)
update the benefit cost analysis criteria for mitigation projects under sections 203 and 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5133
; 5170c) based on the results of the review conducted under subsection (a); and
(2)
prioritize projects under such sections based on the benefit cost analysis criteria updated under paragraph (1).
