1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Readable Insurance Coverage Explanations Act
or the
RICE Act
.
2.
Improved access to group health plan and health insurance coverage summary of benefits and coverage explanation
(a)
In general
Section 2715(d) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg–15(d)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Machine readable submission and public posting
(A)
Annual submission
Not later than for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2024, each entity described in paragraph (3) shall annually submit to the Secretary the summaries of benefits and coverage described in paragraph (1), with respect to such entity, in a machine-readable file (as defined in section 147.210(a)(2)(xiv) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation).
(B)
Public Posting
Not later than 60 days after the date of submission of summaries of benefits and coverage pursuant to subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall make the summaries of benefits and coverage available on a public Federal Government website.
.
(b)
Joint report by Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Treasury
Not later than January 1, 2024, the Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and the Treasury shall jointly conduct a study, and submit to Congress a report, containing—
(1)
the extent to which summaries of benefits and coverage described in section 2715(d)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg–15(d)(1)
) are accessible and comprehensible to individuals applying for or enrolled in a group health plan or group or individual health insurance coverage (as such terms are defined in section 2791 of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg–91
)); and
(2)
recommendations for improving such access and comprehension.
(c)
Implementation by Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Treasury
The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and the Treasury may implement the provisions of, including the amendments made by, this section through interim final rule, sub-regulatory guidance, program instruction, or otherwise.
