1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Grid Resilience and Infrastructure Depot Act of 2022
or the
GRID Act of 2022
.
2.
Strategic transformer reserve and resilience program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish a program to reduce the vulnerability of the electric grid to physical attack, cyber attack, electromagnetic pulse, geomagnetic disturbances, severe weather, climate change, and seismic events, including by—
(1)
ensuring that large power transformers, generator step-up transformers, power conversion equipment, and other critical electric grid equipment are strategically located to ensure timely replacement of such equipment as may be necessary to restore electric grid function rapidly in the event of severe damage to the electric grid due to physical attack, cyber attack, electromagnetic pulse, geomagnetic disturbances, severe weather, climate change, or seismic events; and
(2)
establishing a coordinated plan to facilitate transportation of large power transformers, generator step-up transformers, power conversion equipment, and other critical electric grid equipment.
(b)
Transformer resilience
In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
improve large power transformers, generator step-up transformers, power conversion equipment, and other critical electric grid equipment by reducing their vulnerabilities;
(2)
develop, test, and deploy innovative equipment designs that are more flexible and offer greater resiliency of electric grid functions;
(3)
coordinate with industry and manufacturers to standardize large power transformers, generator step-up transformers, power conversion equipment, and other critical electric grid equipment;
(4)
monitor and test large power transformers, generator step-up transformers, power conversion equipment, and other critical electric grid equipment that the Secretary determines may pose a risk to the bulk-power system or national security; and
(5)
facilitate the domestic manufacturing of large power transformers, generator step-up transformers, power conversion equipment, and other critical electric grid equipment through the issuance of grants and loans, and through the provision of technical support.
(c)
Strategic equipment reserves
(1)
Authorization
In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the Secretary may establish one or more federally owned strategic equipment reserves, as appropriate, to ensure nationwide access to large power transformers, generator step-up transformers, power conversion equipment, and other critical electric grid equipment.
(2)
Consideration
In establishing any federally owned strategic equipment reserve, the Secretary may consider existing spare transformer and equipment programs and requirements established by the private sector, Regional Transmission Organizations, Independent System Operators, and State regulatory authorities.
(3)
Iron and steel
(A)
In general
In establishing any federally owned strategic equipment reserve, no Federal funds shall be used for the purchase of large power transformers, generator step-up transformers, power conversion equipment, or other critical electric grid equipment unless all of the iron and steel products used in such equipment are produced in the United States.
(B)
Waiver
(i)
In general
The Secretary shall waive application of subparagraph (A) in any case or category of cases in which the Secretary finds that—
(I)
applying subparagraph (A) would be inconsistent with the public interest;
(II)
iron and steel products are not produced in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities or of a satisfactory quality; or
(III)
inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the United States will increase the cost of the applicable large power transformers, generator step-up transformers, power conversion equipment, or other critical electric grid equipment by more than 25 percent.
(ii)
Process
Before issuing a waiver under this subparagraph, the Secretary shall—
(I)
make publicly available in an easily accessible location on a website designated by the Office of Management and Budget and on the website of the Department of Energy a detailed written explanation for the proposed determination to issue the waiver; and
(II)
provide a period of not less than 15 days for public comment on the proposed waiver.
(C)
International agreements
This paragraph shall be applied in a manner consistent with United States obligations under international agreements.
(D)
Definitions
In this paragraph—
(i)
the term
iron and steel products
includes electrical steel used in the manufacture of—
(I)
transformers; and
(II)
laminations, cores, and other transformer components; and
(ii)
in the case of iron and steel products, the term
produced in the United States
means that all manufacturing processes, from the initial melting stage through the application of coatings, occurred in the United States.
(d)
Consultation
The program established under subsection (a) shall be carried out in consultation with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council, the Electric Reliability Organization, manufacturers, and owners and operators of critical electric infrastructure and defense and military installations.
(e)
Prevailing wages
Any laborer or mechanic employed by any contractor or subcontractor in the performance of work funded directly, or assisted in whole or in part, by the Federal Government pursuant to this section shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on work of a similar character in the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor under subchapter IV of
chapter 31
of title 40, United States Code (commonly referred to as the Davis-Bacon Act). With respect to the labor standards in this subsection, the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40, United States Code.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $75,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, and such amounts shall remain available until expended.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Bulk-power system; Electric Reliability Organization
The terms
bulk-power system
and
Electric Reliability Organization
have the meaning given such terms in section 215 of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 824o
).
(2)
Critical electric infrastructure
The term
critical electric infrastructure
has the meaning given such term in section 215A of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 824o–1
).
(3)
Independent System Operator; Regional Transmission Organization State regulatory authority
The terms
Regional Transmission Organization
,
Independent System Operator
, and
State regulatory authority
have the meaning given such terms in section 3 of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 796
).
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
