1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Workforce Opportunity for Returning Citizens Act
or the
WORC Act
.
2.
Grants to assist incarcerated or previously incarcerated individuals
Subtitle D of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3221 et seq.
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating section 172 as section 173; and
(2)
by inserting after section 171, the following:
172.
Grants to assist incarcerated or previously incarcerated individuals
(a)
In general
From the amounts appropriated under subsection (g), the Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities to develop or expand education or workforce training programs that lead to employment opportunities for incarcerated individuals or previously incarcerated individuals and reduce recidivism.
(b)
Priority
In awarding grants under this Act, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that will use the grants to develop or expand training programs described in subsection (a) that will lead participants of such programs—
(1)
to jobs in skilled trade (such as jobs in construction, plumbing, welding, heating and air conditioning, or masonry); or
(2)
to the attainment of recognized postsecondary credentials.
(c)
Application requirements
To receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(d)
Uses of funds
An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall use such grant to develop or expand a training program described in subsection (a).
(e)
Reports
Each eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall annually prepare and submit to the Secretary a report on—
(1)
the amount of the grant awarded to the eligible entity for the preceding grant year, and how such grant was used; and
(2)
the progress, as described in section 116, of the eligible entity with respect to the training program developed or expanded with such grant, including the relative rate of recidivism of the participants of such program.
(f)
Definitions
(1)
Correctional institution
The term
correctional institution
has the meaning given the term in section 225(e)(1).
(2)
Education or workforce training program
The term
education or workforce training program
includes—
(A)
an apprenticeship program;
(B)
an on-the-job training program, or
(C)
a program providing classroom instruction.
(3)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
a local board;
(B)
an area career and technical education school;
(C)
an intermediary;
(D)
an institution of higher education, including a 2-year institution of higher education; or
(E)
a consortium of the entities described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
(4)
Incarcerated individual
The term
incarcerated individual
means an adult or juvenile who is in the custody of a correctional institution.
(5)
Previously incarcerated individual
The term
previously incarcerated individual
means an adult or juvenile who has been an incarcerated individual at any time during the preceding 36-month period.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.
.
3.
Table of contents
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act is amended by striking the item relating to section 172 and inserting the following:
Sec. 172. Grants to assist incarcerated or previously incarcerated individuals.
Sec. 173. Authorization of appropriations.
.
