1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Carbon Limiting Emissions At Refineries Act
or the
CLEAR Act
.
2.
Carbon emissions and intensity reduction technologies for qualified fuel production facilities
(a)
Carbon reduction program
Section 962 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16292
) is amended to read as follows:
962.
Carbon emissions and intensity reduction for qualified fuel production facilities
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of Energy shall transmit to the Congress a plan outlining opportunities for research, development and commercialization projects capable of making significant reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions and/or carbon intensity of qualified fuel production facilities, including a road map for advancing the readiness level of such technologies from laboratory scale to industrial use for the 5-year period beginning on the date of the submission of the plan.
(b)
Program
Not later than 180 days after the Secretary submits the plan under subsection (a) to Congress, the Secretary shall establish a program of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of carbon emissions and intensity reduction technologies based on such plan to facilitate the development of—
(1)
promising research projects including but not limited to energy usage reductions, use of advanced catalysts, electrification of heat and steam generation, hydrogen firing, low grade waste heat recovery, membrane separations, and other process improvements that, with appropriate support, could produce commercially-feasible technologies capable of meaningfully lowering the global greenhouse gas emissions or carbon intensity of qualified fuel production facilities; or
(2)
carbon capture and sequestration technologies for qualified fuel production facilities.
(c)
Demonstration projects
(1)
In general
In carrying out the program under subsection (b), the Secretary may award funds for commercial-scale demonstration projects for qualified fuel production facilities that test the scale of technology necessary for commercial operation, in accordance with this subsection.
(2)
Engineering and design studies
In carrying out the program under subsection (b), the Secretary may award funds for front-end engineering and design studies in addition to, or in advance of, issuing an award for a demonstration project under this subsection.
(3)
Application
An entity seeking an award to conduct a demonstration project under this subsection shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may require.
(4)
Limitations
The Secretary shall only provide an award under this subsection after reviewing each applicant and application for—
(A)
financial strength;
(B)
construction schedule;
(C)
market risk; and
(D)
contractor history.
(5)
Requirements
An awardee under this subsection shall—
(A)
utilize technologies that have completed pilot-scale testing or the equivalent, as determined by the Secretary;
(B)
secure and maintain agreements for technologies designed to reduce carbon intensity of or otherwise lower net greenhouse gas emissions at, qualified fuel production facilities or for the utilization or sequestration of captured carbon dioxide; and
(C)
upon completion, demonstrate greenhouse gas emissions and/or intensity reduction or carbon capture technologies utilized by a qualified fuel production facility.
(6)
Cost sharing
The Secretary shall require cost sharing under this subsection in accordance with section 988.
(d)
Applicability
No technology, or level of emission reduction, shall be treated as adequately demonstrated for purpose of section 111 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7411
), achievable for purposes of section 169 of that Act (
42 U.S.C. 7479
), or achievable in practice for purposes of section 171 of that Act (
42 U.S.C. 7501
) solely by reason of the identification of such technology in reports or programs established under this section.
(e)
Qualified fuel production facilities defined
The term
qualified fuel production facilities
means petroleum refineries or facilities that manufacture commercial amounts of drop-in fuel as defined in section 2922h(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
For activities under this section, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $200,000,000 annually to carry out its purpose.
.
