1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Student Loan Deferment for Sexual Violence Survivors Act
.
2.
Deferment for victims of sexual violence
Section 455(f)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1087e(f)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
or
at the end of subparagraph (C);
(2)
by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (D) and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(E)
not in excess of 3 years (for one or more periods of not less than 6 months and not more than 12 months) during which the borrower ceases to carry at least one-half the normal full-time work load for the course of study that the borrower is pursuing, as determined by the eligible institution (as such term is defined in section 435(a)) the borrower is attending, beginning on the date on which the borrower reports to the title IX coordinator (within the meaning of section 106.8 of title 34, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor regulations) of such institution that the borrower is a victim of sexual violence (which includes sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking, as such terms are defined in section 485(f)(6)(A)).
.
3.
Return of funds waiver
Section 484B(b)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1091b(b)(2)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(F)
Waivers of grant assistance and loan repayment by students who are victims of sexual violence
In addition to the waivers authorized by subparagraphs (D) and (E), the Secretary may waive the amounts that students are required to return under this section with respect to any grant assistance (including Federal Pell Grants) or loans made under this title if the withdrawals on which the returns are based are withdrawals by students—
(i)
whose attendance was interrupted due to being a victim of sexual violence (within the meaning of section 455(f)(2)(E)); and
(ii)
in the case of students who, in the absence of this subparagraph, would have been required to return loans made under this title, who are receiving a deferment under section 455(f)(2)(E) on such loans.
.
