1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Compact of Free Association Host Communities Support Act
.
2.
Waiver of matching funds requirement
A Federal department, agency, independent agency, office, or instrumentality may waive any requirement for local matching funds (including in-kind contributions) otherwise required to be provided by an affected jurisdiction for any Federal grant requiring matching funds.
3.
Reconciliation of unreimbursed impact expenses
(a)
In general
To address previously accrued and unreimbursed impact expenses, at the request of the Governor of an affected jurisdiction, the President may reduce, release, or waive all or part of amounts owed by the Government of an affected jurisdiction (or the government’s autonomous agencies or instrumentalities) to any department, agency, independent agency, office, or instrumentality of the United States.
(b)
Terms and conditions
(1)
Substantiation of impact costs
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Governor of each affected jurisdiction shall submit to the Secretary a report, prepared in consultation with an independent accounting firm, substantiating unreimbursed economic impacts to the affected jurisdiction of receiving compact migrants from 2004 through 2021. Upon request of the Secretary, the Governor of the affected jurisdiction shall submit to the Secretary copies of all documents upon which the report submitted by that Governor was based.
(2)
Congressional review and comment
Any reduction, release, or waiver under this Act shall not take effect until 60 days after the President notifies Congress of the President’s intent to approve a request of the Governor of each affected jurisdiction. In exercising his authority under this section and in determining whether to give final approval to a request, the President shall take into consideration comments the President may receive after Congressional review.
(c)
Annual limit
The President may reduce, release, or waive, under subsection (a), amounts totaling, in the aggregate, not more than $100,000,000 annually.
4.
Sunset
This authority of the Secretary under sections 2 and 3 shall terminate on that date that the Secretary certifies that all the unreimbursed economic impact costs to affected jurisdictions have been reconciled and repaid to those affected jurisdictions.
5.
Definitions
For the purposes of this Act, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Affected jurisdiction
The term
affected jurisdiction
means any State, territory, or possession of the United States that receives and hosts a Compact migrant.
(2)
Compact migrant
The term
compact migrant
means a person, or their children under the age of 18, admitted or resident pursuant to section 141 of the U.S.–RMI or U.S.–FSM Compact, or section 141 of the Palau Compact who, as of a date referenced in the most recently published enumeration is a resident of an affected jurisdiction. As used in this subsection, the term
resident
shall be a person who has a ‘residence,’ as that term is defined in section 101(a)(33) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
