1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Asset Seizure for Ukraine Reconstruction Act
.
2.
Presidential authorities with respect to the conflict in Ukraine
(a)
In general
The President upon determination that Russia remains engaged in a conflict of territorial conquest in Ukraine, may, by means of instructions, licenses, or other regulations as may be promulgated, confiscate any property or accounts subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and valued over $5,000,000 of any foreign person described in subsection (b). All rights, title, and interest in any property so confiscated shall vest, upon the terms directed by the President, in such agency or person as the President may designate from time to time, and upon such terms and conditions as the President may prescribe. Such interest or property may be held, used, administered, liquidated, or sold, by such agency or person and such designated agency or person may perform any and all acts incident to the accomplishment or furtherance of these purposes.
(b)
Foreign person described
A foreign person described in this subsection is a foreign person—
(1)
whose wealth, according to credible information, is derived in part through corruption linked to or political support for the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin; and
(2)
with respect to which the President has imposed sanctions relating to corruption, human rights violations, Russian malign influence, or conflicts in Ukraine.
(c)
Use of Liquidated Funds
Any funds derived from liquidation or sales pursuant to subsection (a) shall be used solely for the benefit of the people of Ukraine, for the following purposes:
(1)
Post-conflict reconstruction in Ukraine.
(2)
Humanitarian assistance.
(3)
Weapons for the uniformed military forces of the elected Government of Ukraine.
(4)
Provisions to support refugees and refugee resettlement in neighboring countries and in the United States.
(5)
Technology items and services to ensure the free flow of information to the Ukrainian people in Ukraine, including items to counter internet censorship by Russian authorities, to circumvent efforts to shut down internet or communication services by Russian authorities, to bolster cybersecurity capabilities of Ukrainian Government or non-governmental organizations.
(6)
Humanitarian and development assistance for the Russian people, including democracy and human rights programming and monitoring.
(d)
Sunset
The authority provided by subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
