Section 1. Procurement of Computer Equipment that Meets EPA Energy Star Requirements for Energy Efficiency. (a) The heads of Federal agencies shall ensure that, within   from the date of this order, all acquisitions of microcomputers, including personal computers, monitors, and printers, meet " " requirements for energy efficiency. The heads of Federal agencies may grant, on a case-by-case basis, exemptions to this directive for acquisitions, based upon the commercial availability of qualifying equipment, significant cost differential of the equipment, the agency’s performance requirements, and the agency’s mission.

(b)

Within   from the date of this order, agencies shall specify that microcomputers, including personal computers, monitors, and printers, acquired by the agency shall be equipped with the energy efficient lowpower standby feature as defined by the   Energy Star computers program. This feature shall be activated when the equipment is shipped and shall be capable of entering and recovering from the low-power state unless the equipment meets   efficiency levels at all times. To the extent permitted by law, agencies shall include this specification in all existing and future contracts, if both the Government and the contractor agree, and if any additional costs would be offset by the potential energy savings.

(c)

Agencies shall ensure that   users are made aware of the significant economic and environmental benefits of the energy efficient low-power standby feature and its aggressive use by including this information in routine computer training classes.

(d)

Each agency shall report   to   on acquisitions exempted from the requirements of this   order, and   shall prepare a consolidated   report for the President.

 . 2. Definition. For purposes of this order, the term "agency" has the same meaning given it in section 151 of the Energy Policy Act of  .

 . 3.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a   against  , its officers or employees, or any other person.
