Section 1.

Definitions.

(a) " " ("NSDI") means the technology, policies, standards, and human resources necessary to acquire, process, store, distribute, and improve utilization of geospatial data.

(b) "Geospatial data" means information that identifies the geographic location and characteristics of natural or constructed features and boundaries on the earth. This information may be derived from, among other things, remote sensing, mapping, and surveying technologies. Statistical data may be included in this definition at the discretion of the collecting agency.

(c) The "National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse" means a distributed network of geospatial data producers, managers, and users linked electronically.

 . 2.

Executive Branch Leadership for Development of  .

(a)   (" "), established by   ("OMB") Circular No. A–16 ("Coordination of Surveying, Mapping, and  ") and chaired by the Secretary of   ("Secretary") or the Secretary's designee, shall coordinate   development of the NSDI.

(b) Each member agency shall ensure that its representative on the   holds a policy-level position.

(c) Executive branch departments and agencies ("agencies") that have an interest in the development of the NSDI are encouraged to join the  .

(d) This Executive order is intended to strengthen and enhance the general policies described in OMB Circular No. A–16. Each agency shall meet its respective responsibilities under OMB Circular No. A–16.

(e) The   shall seek to involve  , local, and tribal governments in the development and implementation of the initiatives contained in this order. The   shall utilize the expertise of academia, the private sector, professional societies, and others as necessary to aid in the development and implementation of the objectives of this order.

 . 3.

Development of a National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse.

(a)

Establishing a National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse.

The Secretary, through the  , and in consultation with, as appropriate,  , local, and tribal governments and other affected parties, shall take steps within   of this order, to establish an electronic   ("Clearinghouse") for the NSDI. The   shall be compatible with   to enable integration with that effort.

(b)

Standardized Documentation of Data.

Beginning   from the date of this order, each agency shall document all new geospatial data it collects or produces, either directly or indirectly, using the standard under development by the  , and make that standardized documentation electronically accessible to the   network. Within   of this order, agencies shall adopt a schedule, developed in consultation with the  , for documenting, to the extent practicable, geospatial data previously collected or produced, either directly or indirectly, and making that data documentation electronically accessible to the   network.

(c)

Public Access to Geospatial Data.

Within   of this order, each agency shall adopt a plan, in consultation with the  , establishing procedures to make geospatial data available to the public, to the extent permitted by law, current policies, and relevant OMB circulars, including OMB Circular No. A–130 ("Management of Federal Information Resources") and any implementing bulletins.

(d)

Agency Utilization of the  .

Within   of this order, each agency shall adopt internal procedures to ensure that the agency accesses the   before it expends Federal funds to collect or produce new geospatial data, to determine whether the information has already been collected by others, or whether cooperative efforts to obtain the data are possible.

(e)

Funding.

  shall provide funding for the   to cover the initial prototype testing, standards development, and monitoring of the performance of the  . Agencies shall continue to fund their respective programs that collect and produce geospatial data; such data is then to be made part of the   for wider accessibility.

 . 4.

Data Standards Activities.

(a)

General FGDC Responsibility.

The   shall develop standards for implementing the NSDI, in consultation and cooperation with  , local, and tribal governments, the private and academic sectors, and, to the extent feasible, the international community, consistent with OMB Circular No. A–119 ("Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Standards"), and other applicable law and policies.

(b)

Standards for Which Agencies Have Specific Responsibilities.

Agencies assigned responsibilities for data categories by OMB Circular No. A–16 shall develop, through the  , standards for those data categories, so as to ensure that the data produced by all agencies are compatible.

(c)

Other Standards.

The   may from time to time identify and develop, through its member agencies, and to the extent permitted by law, other standards necessary to achieve the objectives of this order. The   will promote the use of such standards and, as appropriate, such standards shall be submitted to   for consideration as  . Those standards shall apply to geospatial data as defined in section 1 of this order.

(d)

Agency Adherence to Standards.

Federal agencies collecting or producing geospatial data, either directly or indirectly (e.g. through grants, partnerships, or contracts with other entities), shall ensure, prior to obligating funds for such activities, that data will be collected in a manner that meets all relevant standards adopted through the   process.

 . 5.

National Digital Geospatial Data Framework.

In consultation with  , local, and tribal governments and within   of this order, the   shall submit a plan and schedule to OMB for completing the initial implementation of a national digital geospatial data framework ("framework") by   and for establishing a process of ongoing data maintenance. The framework shall include geospatial data that are significant, in the determination of the  , to a broad variety of users within any geographic area or nationwide. At a minimum, the plan shall address how the initial transportation, hydrology, and boundary elements of the framework might be completed by   in order to support the decennial census of  .

 . 6.

Partnerships for Data Acquisition.

The Secretary, under the auspices of the  , and within   of this order, shall develop, to the extent permitted by law, strategies for maximizing cooperative participatory efforts with  , local, and tribal governments, the private sector, and other nonfederal organizations to share costs and improve efficiencies of acquiring geospatial data consistent with this order.

 . 7.

Scope.

(a) For the purposes of this order, the term "agency" shall have the same meaning as the term "Executive agency" in 5 U.S.C. 105, and shall include the military departments and components of  .

(b) The following activities are exempt from compliance with this order:

(i) national security-related activities of   as determined by the Secretary of  ;

(ii) national defense-related activities of   as determined by the Secretary of  ; and

(iii) intelligence activities as determined by the Director of  .

(c) The NSDI may involve the mapping, charting, and geodesy activities of   relating to foreign areas, as determined by the Secretary of  .

(d) This order does not impose any requirements on tribal governments.

(e) Nothing in the order shall be construed to contravene the development of   adopted and promulgated under the provisions of section 111(d) of   of  , as amended by   of   (Public Law 100–235), or any other   law, regulation, or international agreement.

 . 8.

 .

This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right to administrative or judicial review, or any other right or benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
