PART 1 PREAMBLE

Section 101.  . The purpose of this order is to ensure that   exercises leadership in the reduction of petroleum consumption through improvements in fleet fuel efficiency and the use of alternative fuel vehicles (AFVs) and alternative fuels. Reduced petroleum use and the displacement of petroleum by alternative fuels will help promote markets for more alternative fuel and fuel efficient vehicles, encourage new technologies, enhance  ’ energy self-sufficiency and security, and ensure a healthier environment through the reduction of greenhouse gases and other pollutants in the atmosphere.

PART 2 GOALS

Sec. 201.  . Each agency operating 20 or more motor vehicles within   shall reduce its entire vehicle fleet’s   petroleum consumption by at least 20 percent by  , compared with   petroleum consumption levels.

 . 202.  . Agencies have numerous options for developing a strategy to meet the petroleum reduction levels established in section 201 of this order. Measures include: the use of alternative fuels in light, medium, and heavy-duty vehicles; the acquisition of vehicles with higher fuel economy, including hybrid vehicles; the substitution of cars for light trucks; an increase in vehicle load factors; a decrease in   traveled; and a decrease in fleet size. Each agency will need a strategy that includes most, if not all, of these measures, but can develop a strategy that fits its unique fleet configuration and mission requirements. As part of the strategy, each agency should attempt to accelerate the introduction of vehicles meeting Tier 2 standards. Where feasible, agencies should also consider procurement of innovative vehicles, such as hybrid electric vehicles, capable of large improvements in fuel economy. The strategy should also attempt to minimize costs in achieving the objectives of this order. In developing its strategy, each agency shall include the following:

(a)

  Acquisition and Use of  . Each agency shall fulfill the acquisition requirements for AFVs established by section 303 of the Energy Policy Act of  . Agencies shall use alternative fuels to meet a majority of the fuel requirements of those motor vehicles by  . Section 402 of this order addresses related issues of alternative fuel infrastructure availability and the ability to track alternative fuel usage data; and

(b)

Acquisition of  . Agencies shall increase the average   fuel economy rating of passenger cars and light trucks acquired by at least 1 mile per gallon (mpg) by   and at least 3 mpg by   compared to FY   acquisitions.

PART 3 ORGANIZATION AND  

Sec. 301.  .   (OMB),   ( ),   ( ), and   ( ) shall be responsible for providing leadership to the other Federal agencies in implementing programs to meet the goals of this order. Therefore, they shall perform the following activities:

(a)

OMB shall:

(1)

designate a senior official to assume the responsibility for coordinating the collection of agency budget and data submissions pursuant to this order;

(2)

amend and issue budget guidance to the agencies that requires each agency to identify in its   budget submission the funding necessary to meet the requirements of this order;

(3)

review   agency budget submissions to determine adequacy in meeting the goal of this order and to balance requests for increased funding to support achievement of the goals against other mission priorities for the agency; and

(4)

review agency submissions for the   report to the  , after budget decisions are made.

(b)

DOE shall:

(1)

issue guidance to agencies, within   of the issuance of this order, on preparation and submission of agency strategies for complying with this order and the collection and   reporting of data to demonstrate compliance with this order;

(2)

review and evaluate agency strategies prior to their submission to OMB;

(3)

provide OMB with copies of the agency strategy evaluations;

(4)

provide whatever other support OMB requires to facilitate performance of  ’s role;

(5)

establish the data collection and reporting system outlined in the   guidance for collecting   agency performance data on meeting the goals of this order and other applicable statutes and policies;

(6)

educate personnel from other agencies on the requirements of this order, the data collection and reporting system, best practices for improving fleet fuel efficiency, and methods for successfully acquiring and using AFVs;

(7)

review agencies’   data submissions for accuracy and produce a scorecard of agency and overall Federal compliance with this order and other applicable statutes and policies; and

(8)

report to the President   on compliance with the order, including the scorecard and level of performance in meeting the goals of the agencies’ strategies.

(c)

  shall support   and   in their efforts to assist the agencies in the accelerated purchase of   vehicles.

(d)

  shall develop and implement strategies that will ease agencies’ financial and administrative burdens associated with the acquisition of AFVs, including:

(1)

Agencies shall be allowed to replace their conventionally-fueled vehicles with AFVs by making an initial lump-sum payment for the additional acquisition cost of the   and shall be allowed to contribute to the higher replacement costs of the   incrementally over the term of the lease, and have the option of averaging   incremental costs across the agency fleet as provided by the Energy Policy Act of  .

(2)

Within   of this order,  , in consultation with other agencies, shall:

(A)

provide a summary of agency   acquisition plans to potential   manufacturers to assist in their production planning.   in advance of agency vehicle ordering cycles,   must provide to agencies the best available information on the production plans of   manufacturers;

(B)

develop, in coordination with   and  , methods that will help Federal fleet managers to select vehicles to improve fleet fuel efficiency and to meet Tier 2 vehicle standards; and

(C)

collaborate with its customer agencies and their procurement staff and officials to discuss and plan efforts to ensure that the  -leased fleet is making progress toward the goals of this order.

 . 302.   Official. Within   of the date of this order, the head of each agency shall designate a senior official to assume responsibility for the agency’s   and fleet fuel efficiency programs, and for meeting the requirements of this order. Each senior agency official designated by an agency shall be responsible for:

(a)

preparing an agency strategy for meeting the goals of this order, in accordance with guidance issued by  ;

(b)

submitting the agency strategy to   within   of the issuance of this order for evaluation and submission to OMB;

(c)

implementing the data collection and reporting system outlined in the   guidance for collecting   agency performance data on meeting the goals of this order and reporting the data to  ;

(d)

ensuring the agency’s strategy for meeting the goals of this order is incorporated in the annual budget submission to OMB; and

(e) assembling the appropriate team and resources in the agency necessary

to attain the goals of this order.

 . 303.  . Agencies may use

the following management strategies to assist them in meeting the goals

of this order:

(a)

Awards. Agencies may use employee incentive programs to reward exceptional performance in implementing this order.

(b)

 . Agencies shall, where appropriate, include successful implementation of the provisions of this order in the position descriptions and performance evaluations of agency heads, the senior official, fleet managers, their superiors, and other relevant employees.

 . 304. Applicability. This order applies to each agency operating 20 or more motor vehicles within  . Agency means an executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105. For the purpose of this order, military departments, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102, are covered under the auspices of  .

PART 4 IMPLEMENTATION

Sec. 401.  . When preparing the annual report to   and OMB, each agency acquisition of an alternative fuel light-duty vehicle, regardless of geographic placement, shall count as one credit towards fulfilling the   acquisition requirements of the Energy Policy Act of  . Agencies shall receive one additional credit for each light-duty   that exclusively uses an alternative fuel and for each Zero Emission Vehicle of any size. Agencies shall receive three credits for dedicated mediumduty AFVs and four credits for dedicated heavy-duty AFVs. Agencies can also receive one credit for every 450 gallons of pure bio-diesel used in diesel vehicles.

 . 402. Infrastructure. To support the use of alternative fuel in AFVs, agencies should arrange for fueling at commercial facilities that offer alternative fuels for sale to the public.

(a) Agencies should team with  , local, and private entities to support the expansion and use of public access alternative fuel refueling stations;

(b)

Agencies should use the authority granted to them in section 304 of the Energy Policy Act of   to establish nonpublic access alternative fuel infrastructure for fueling Federal AFVs where public fueling is unavailable.

(c)

Agencies are encouraged to work with   and   to resolve alternative fuel usage tracking issues with alternative and petroleum fuel providers.

 . 403. Procurement of Environmentally Preferable Motor Vehicle Products.

(a)

Consistent with Executive Order   and section 6002 of   ( ), 42 U.S.C.  , effective   after the date of this order, no Federal agency shall purchase, sell, or arrange for the purchase of   vehicle lubricating oils when re-refined motor vehicle lubricating oils are reasonably available and meet the vehicle manufacturer’s recommended performance standards.

(b)

Consistent with Executive Order   and   section 6962, in acquiring and maintaining motor vehicles, agencies shall acquire and use    -designated Comprehensive Procurement Guideline items, including but not limited to retread tires, when such products are reasonably available and meet applicable performance standards. In addition, Federal agencies should consider acquiring other recycled content products, such as tires containing a minimum of 5–10 percent post-consumer recovered rubber.

(c)

Consistent with Executive Order  , Federal agencies are encouraged to use biobased motor vehicle products when such products are reasonably available and meet applicable performance standards.

PART 5 GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 501. Revocation. Executive Order   of  , is revoked.

 . 502.  . Agencies must carry out the provisions of this order to the extent consistent with their statutory authority.

 . 503. Limitations. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any other person.

 . 504.  . Independent agencies and agencies excepted from coverage by section 304 are encouraged to comply with the provisions of this order.

 . 505. Government-Owned  . Agencies must ensure that all Government-owned contractor-operated vehicles comply with all applicable goals and other requirements of this order and that these goals and requirements are incorporated into each contractor’s management contract.

 . 506. Exemptions for Military Tactical, Law Enforcement, and Emergency Vehicles.   military tactical vehicles are exempt from this order. Law enforcement, emergency, and any other vehicle class or type determined by OMB, in consultation with  , are exempted from this order’s requirements for Federal fleet fuel efficiency and alternative fuel vehicle acquisition. Agencies claiming vehicle exemptions must provide information on the number of each class or type of vehicle claimed as exempt as well as an estimate of total fuel consumption of exempt vehicles on an   basis. Agencies should examine options for increasing fuel efficiency in these exempt vehicles and should report actions taken to increase fuel efficiency in these vehicles or fleets. All information required by this section must be submitted   under Part 3 of this order.

 . 507. Compliance. (a) If an agency fails to meet requirements of the Energy Policy Act of   or this order, its report to the   and OMB

under section 302(c) must include an explanation for such failure and an updated strategy for achieving compliance using the agency’s current and requested budgets.

(b) OMB, in consultation with  , may modify the compliance requirements for an agency under Part 2 of this order, if the agency is unable to comply with the requirements of that part. An agency requesting modification must show that it has made substantial good faith efforts to comply with that part. The availability and costs of alternative fuels and AFVs can be a factor in  ’s decision to modify the agency’s compliance with Part 2 of this order.

 . 508. Definitions. Terms used in this order shall have the same definitions as those in the Energy Policy Act of   and Executive Order  , unless specifically changed in guidance to be issued by   under section 301(b) of this order.
