"3.   may be awarded to members or former members of the reserve components of   who meet one or more of the following three criteria.

a. The member has completed a total of   of honorable service in one or more of such reserve components, including   active duty and inactive duty training as required by appropriate regulations, provided that (1) such   of service was performed within a period of  , (2) such service shall not include service in a regular component of the armed forces, including  , but (A) service in a reserve component that is concurrent, in whole or in part, with service in a regular component of the armed forces shall be included in computing the required   of reserve service, and (B) any period of time during which reserve service is interrupted by service in a regular component of the armed forces shall be excluded in computing, and shall not be considered a break in, the said period of  , and (3) such service shall not include service for which   or   has been or may be awarded.

b. On or after  , the member was called to active duty and served under sections 12301(a),  ,  , 12406 (formerly sections 672(a), 673, 673b,  , and 8500) and Chapter 15 of title 10, United States Code, or, in the case of  , section 712 of title  , United States Code.

c. On or after  , the member volunteered and served on active duty in support of specific   military operations or contingencies designated by the Secretary of  .

4. Not more than one   may be awarded to any one person. The member shall receive the medal with the distinctive design of the reserve component with which the person served at the time of award or in which such person last served. The medal is awarded with the appropriate appurtenance that denotes the manner in which the award was earned, either through completion of   of service, mobilization, or volunteering for, and serving on, active duty in support of operations or contingencies designated by the Secretary of  . For each succeeding mobilization, volunteering for, and serving on, active duty in support of operations or contingencies, or   period of service as above described, and a suitable appurtenance may be awarded, to be worn with the medal in accordance with appropriate regulations."
