Section 1. To the extent permitted by law, the provisions of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended, and the provisions for administration of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended, shall be carried out under this order so as to continue in full force and effect and amend, as necessary, the export control system heretofore maintained by   regulations issued under the Export Administration Act of  , as amended. The delegations of authority set forth in Executive Order No.   of July 7,  , as amended by Executive Order No.   of  ; Executive Order No.   of  ; Executive Order No. 12735 of  ; and Executive Order No.   of  , shall be incorporated in this order and shall apply to the exercise of authorities under this order.

 . 2. All rules and regulations issued or continued in effect by the Secretary of   under the authority of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended, including those published in Title 15,   B, Chapter VII,  , of the Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 768 through 799, and all orders, regulations, licenses, and other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect pursuant thereto, shall, until amended or revoked by the Secretary of  , remain in full force and effect as if issued or taken pursuant to this order, except that the provisions of sections 203(b)(2) and 206 of the Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2) and  ) shall control over any inconsistent provisions in the regulations. Nothing in this section shall affect the continued applicability of administrative sanctions provided for by the regulations described above.

 . 3. Provisions for administration of section 38(e) of   (22 U.S.C. 2778(e)) may be made and shall continue in full force and effect until amended or revoked under the authority of section 203 of the Act (50 U.S.C. 1702). To the extent permitted by law, this order also shall constitute authority for the issuance and continuation in full force and effect of all rules and regulations by the President or his delegate, and all orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative actions issued, taken, or continued in effect pursuant thereto, relating to the administration of section 38(e).

 . 4. Executive  .  , is revoked, and that declaration of emergency is rescinded. The revocation of Executive Order No.   shall not affect any violation of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action under that order that occurred during the period the order was in effect.

 . 5. This order shall be effective as of midnight between August 20, 1994, and  , and shall remain in effect until terminated.
