Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, of  , or of those senior officials of  , or adult members of their immediate families, who are designated pursuant to section 5 of this order, are hereby blocked.

 . 2. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the following are prohibited:

(a) the direct or indirect importation into   of all diamonds exported from   on or after the effective date of this order that are not controlled through   regime of  ;

(b) the sale or supply by   persons or from   or using U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, of equipment used in mining, regardless of origin, to the territory of   other than through a point of entry designated pursuant to section 5 of this order;

(c) the sale or supply by   persons or from   or using U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, of motorized vehicles, watercraft, or spare parts for the foregoing, regardless of origin, to the territory of   other than through a point of entry designated pursuant to section 5 of this order; and

(d) the sale or supply by   persons or from   or using U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, of mining services or ground or waterborne transportation services, regardless of origin, to persons in areas of   to which   administration has not been extended, as designated pursuant to section 5 of this order.

 . 3. Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d) the term " " includes:

(i) the Uniao Nacional para a   ( ), known in English as  ;"

(ii) the   Armadas para a   (FALA), known in English as  ;" and

(iii) any person acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing, including   (CEDA);

(e) the term "controlled through   regime of  " means accompanied by any documentation that demonstrates to the satisfaction of   that the diamonds were legally exported from   with the approval of  .

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including designating senior officials of   and adult members of their immediate families for purposes of section 1 of this order, designating points of entry in   and areas of   to which   administration has not been extended for purposes of section 2 of this order, establishing exemptions from the prohibitions set forth in this order for medical and humanitarian purposes, and promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the effective date of this order.

 . 6. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 a.m.,   daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
