Section 1.  . (a) The purpose of this order is to ensure that   exercise leadership in the use of alternative fueled vehicles (AFVs). To that end, each Federal agency shall develop and implement aggressive plans to fulfill the alternative fueled vehicle acquisition requirements established by the Act. The Act generally requires that, of the vehicles acquired by each agency for its fleets, subject to certain conditions specified in section 303(b)(1) of the Act, 25 percent should be AFVs in   (FY)  , 33 percent in  , 50 percent in  , and 75 percent in   and thereafter. These requirements apply to all agencies, regardless of whether they lease vehicles from   ( ) or acquire them elsewhere. That section also defines which   agency vehicles are covered by the   acquisition requirements; this order applies to the same vehicles, which are primarily general-use vehicles located in metropolitan statistical areas with populations of 250,000 or more.

(b) To the extent practicable, agencies shall use alternative fuels in all vehicles capable of using them. Agencies shall continue to work together in interagency committees recommended by   established by Executive Order  , to coordinate their vehicle acquisitions and placement.

 . 2. Submission of Agency Plans and  . (a) Sixty (  after the date of this   order, and annually thereafter as part of its budget submission to the Director of  , each agency shall submit a report on its compliance with sections 303 and 304 of the Act. A copy of the report shall also be submitted to the Secretary of   and to  . The report shall state whether the agency is in compliance with the Act, and substantiate that statement with quantitative data including numbers and types of vehicles acquired and the level of their use. At a minimum, the report shall indicate the number of vehicles acquired or converted for each fuel type and vehicle class, and the total number of vehicles of each fuel type operated by the agency. The Director of   shall issue further reporting guidance as necessary.

(b) If an agency has failed to meet the statutory requirements, it shall include in its report an explanation for such failure and a plan, consistent with the agency's current and requested budgets, for achieving compliance with the Act. The plan shall include alternative sources of suitable AFVs if the agency's primary vehicle supplier is unable to meet the   requirements.

(c) The Secretary of   and   shall cooperatively analyze the agency   reports and acquisition plans, and shall submit jointly a summary report to the Director of  .

 . 3. Exceptions for  , and  . Section 303 of the Act allows exemptions to the acquisition requirements for law-enforcement, emergency, and vehicles acquired and used for military purposes that the Secretary of   has certified must be exempt for national security reasons. Law enforcement vehicles shall include vehicles used for protective activities. Each agency that acquires or utilizes any such vehicles shall include in its report an explanation of why an exemption is claimed with respect to such vehicles.

 . 4. Fulfilling  . (a) Agencies may acquire alternative fueled vehicles to meet the requirements of this order through lease from  , acquisition of original equipment manufacturer models, commercial lease, conversion of conventionally fueled vehicles, or any combination of these approaches. All vehicles, including those converted for alternative fuel use, shall comply with all applicable   and State emissions and safety standards.

(b) Based on its own plans and the plans and reports submitted by other agencies,   shall provide planning information to potential   suppliers to assist in production planning. After consulting with   suppliers,   shall provide to Federal agencies information on the pro duction plans of   suppliers well in advance of budget and ordering cycles.

(c) As required by section 305 of the Act, the Secretary of  , in cooperation with  , shall continue to provide technical assistance to other Federal agencies that acquire alternative fueled vehicles and shall facilitate the coordination of   alternative fueled vehicle program.

 . 5.  . The gains in air quality and energy security that this order seeks to achieve will be even larger if medium- and heavy-duty vehicles are operated on alternative fuels, and if "zero-emissions vehicles" (ZEVs) are used. Therefore, for the purposes of this order, agencies may acquire medium- or heavy-duty dedicated alternative fueled vehicles or ZEVs to meet their   acquisition requirements, and they shall be given credits for compliance with their   targets as follows. Each medium-duty and   shall count the same as two light-duty AFVs, and each dedicated alternative fueled heavy-duty vehicle shall count as three light-duty AFVs. The   credits may be combined with vehicle size credits. The Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall issue detailed guidance on the classification and reporting of medium-duty, heavy-duty, and ZEVs. In the reports mandated in section 2 of this order, medium- and heavy-duty AFVs and ZEVs shall be identified separately from light-duty vehicles.

 . 6. Funding Alternative Fueled Vehicle Acquisition. (a)   will no longer request or require specific appropriations to fund the incremental costs of alternative fueled vehicles, including any incremental costs associated with acquisition and disposal, for other agencies. Agencies shall formulate their compliance plans based on existing and requested funds, but shall not be exempt from the requirements of the Act or this order due to limited appropriations.

(b) An exception regarding funding assistance shall be made for electric vehicles, which are in an earlier stage of development than other alternative fueled vehicles. The Secretary of Energy shall establish a program beginning in   to provide partial funding assistance for agency purchases of electric vehicles. Up to $10,000 or one-half the incremental cost over a comparable gasoline-powered vehicle, whichever is less, may be provided as funding assistance for each electric vehicle, subject to the availability of funds.

 . 7. Agency Cooperation with Stakeholders on Alternative Fueled Vehicle Placement and Refueling Capabilities. The Secretary of Energy shall work with agencies procuring AFVs to coordinate the placement of their vehicles with the placement of similar vehicles by nonfederal alternative fuel stakeholders. Federal planning and acquisition efforts shall be coordinated with the efforts of   "Clean Cities" participants, private industry fuel suppliers, and fleet operators, and   and local governments to ensure that adequate private sector refueling capabilities exist or will exist wherever Federal fleet alternative fueled vehicles are located. Each agency's fleet managers shall work with appropriate organizations at their respective locations, whether in a "Clean Cities" location or not, on initiatives to promote alternative fueled vehicle use and expansion of refueling infrastructure.

 . 8. Definitions. For the purpose of this order, the terms "agency," "alternative fueled vehicle," and "alternative fuel" have the same meaning given such terms in sections 151 and 301 of the Act.

 . 9. Executive Order  . This order supersedes Executive Order  .

 . 10.  . This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
