Section 1.  . To the extent permitted by law and consistent with Executive Order No. 12924 of August 19, 1994, the power, authority, and discretion conferred upon the Secretary of Commerce ("the Secretary") under the Export Administration Act to require, review, and make final determinations with regard to export licenses, documentation, and other forms of information submitted to   pursuant to the Act and the Regulations or under any renewal of, or successor to, the Export Administration Act and the Regulations, with the power of successive redelegation, shall continue.    , and  , and   each shall have the authority to review any export license application submitted to   pursuant to the Act and the Regulations or under any renewal of, or successor to, the Export Administration Act and the Regulations. The Secretary may refer license applications to other   departments or agencies for review as appropriate. In the event that a department or agency determines that certain types of applications need not be referred to it, such department or agency shall notify   as to the specific types of such applications that it does not wish to review. All departments or agencies shall promptly respond, on a case-by-case basis, to requests from other departments or agencies for historical information relating to past license applications.

Section 2. Determinations. (a) All license applications submitted under the Act and the Regulations or any renewal of, or successor to, the Export Administration Act and the Regulations, shall be resolved or referred to the President no later than 90 calendar days after registration of the completed license application.

(b) The following actions related to processing a license application submitted under the Act and the Regulations or any renewal of, or successor to, the Export Administration Act and the Regulations shall not be counted in calculating the time periods prescribed in this order:

(1) Agreement of the Applicant. Delays upon which the Secretary and the applicant mutually agree.

(2) Prelicense Checks. Prelicense checks through government channels that may be required to establish the identity and reliability of the recipient of items controlled under the Act and the Regulations or any renewal of, or successor to, the Export Administration Act and the Regulations, provided that:

(A) the need for such prelicense check is established by the Secretary, or by another department or agency if the request for prelicense check is made by such department or agency;

(B) the Secretary requests the prelicense check within   of the determination that it is necessary; and

(C) the Secretary completes the analysis of the result of the prelicense check within  .

(3) Requests for Government-To-Government Assurances. Requests for government-to-government assurances of suitable end-use of items approved for export under the Act and the Regulations or any renewal of, or successor to, the Export Administration Act and the Regulations, when failure to obtain such assurances would result in rejection of the application, provided that:

(A) the request for such assurances is sent to the Secretary of   within   of the determination that the assurances are required;

(B) the Secretary of   initiates the request of the relevant government within   thereafter; and

(C) the license is issued within   of the Secretary's receipt of the requested assurances. Whenever such prelicense checks and assurances are not requested within the time periods set forth above, they must be accomplished within the time periods established by this section.

(4) Multilateral  . Multilateral review of a license application as provided for under the Act and the Regulations or any renewal of, or successor to, the Export Administration Act and the Regulations, as long as multilateral review is required by the relevant multilateral regime.

(5) Consultations. Consultation with other governments, if such consultation is provided for by a relevant multilateral regime or bilateral arrangement as a precondition for approving a license.

 . 3.  . Within   of registration of any license application, the Secretary shall, as appropriate:

(a) request additional information from the applicant. The time required for the applicant to supply the additional information shall not be counted in calculating the time periods prescribed in this section.

(b) refer the application and pertinent information to agencies or departments as stipulated in section 1 of this order, and forward to the agencies any relevant information submitted by the applicant that could not be reduced to electronic form.

(c) assure that the stated classification on the application is correct; return the application if a license is not required; and, if referral to other departments or agencies is not required, grant the application or notify the applicant of the Secretary's intention to deny the application.

 . 4.  . (a) Each reviewing department or agency shall specify to the Secretary, within   of receipt of a referral as specified in subsection 3(b), any information not in the application that would be required to make a determination, and the Secretary shall promptly request such information from the applicant. If, after receipt of the information so specified or other new information, a reviewing department or agency concludes that additional information would be required to make a determination, it shall promptly specify that additional information to the Secretary, and the Secretary shall promptly request such information from the applicant. The time that may elapse between the date the information is requested by the reviewing department or agency and the date the information is received by the reviewing department or agency shall not be counted in calculating the time periods prescribed in this order. Such information specified by reviewing departments or agencies is in addition to any information that may be requested by   on its own initiative during   after registration of an application.

(b) Within   of receipt of a referral and all required information, a department or agency shall provide the Secretary with a recommendation either to approve or deny the license application. As appropriate, such recommendation may be with the benefit of consultation and discussions in interagency groups established to provide expertise and coordinate interagency consultation. A recommendation that the Secretary deny a license shall include a statement of the reasons for such recommendation that are consistent with the provisions of the Act and the Regulations or any renewal of, or successor to, the Export Administration Act and the Regulations and shall cite both the statutory and the regulatory bases for the recommendation to deny. A department or agency that fails to provide a recommendation within   with a statement of reasons and the statutory and regulatory bases shall be deemed to have no objection to the decision of the Secretary.

 . 5. Interagency Dispute Resolution. (a) Committees. (1)(A)  .   ("the Board"), which was established by Executive Order No.  , and continued in Executive Order No.   of July 7,  , is hereby continued.   shall have as its members, the Secretary, who shall be  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  . The Chairman of   and the Director of   shall be nonvoting members of the Board. No alternate Board Members shall be designated, but the acting head or deputy head of any member department or agency may serve in lieu of the head of  .   may invite the heads of other   departments or agencies, other than the departments or agencies represented by the   members, to participate in the activities of the   when matters of interest to such departments or agencies are under consideration.

(B) The Secretary may, from time to time, refer to the   such particular export license matters, involving questions of national security or other major policy issues, as the Secretary shall select. The Secretary shall also refer to the   any other such export license matter, upon the request of any other member of the   or the head of any other   department or agency having any interest in such matter. The   shall consider the matters so referred to it, giving due consideration to the foreign policy of  , the national security, the domestic economy, and concerns about the proliferation of armaments, weapons of mass destruction, missile delivery systems, and advanced conventional weapons and shall make recommendations thereon to the Secretary.

(2)  .   ("ACEP") is established and shall have as its members the Assistant Secretary of  , who shall be Chair of the  , and Assistant Secretary-level representatives of    , and  , and  . Appropriation representatives of   and of   shall be nonvoting members of the  . Representatives of the departments or agencies shall be the appropriate Assistant Secretary or equivalent (or appropriate acting Assistant Secretary or equivalent in lieu of the Assistant Secretary or equivalent) of  , or appropriate Deputy Assistant Secretary or equivalent (or the appropriate acting Deputy Assistant Secretary or equivalent in lieu of the Deputy Assistant Secretary or equivalent) of  . Regardless of the department or agency representative's rank, such representative shall speak and vote at the ACEP on behalf of the appropriate Assistant Secretary or equivalent of such department or agency. The   may invite Assistant Secretary-level representatives of other   departments or agencies, other than the departments and agencies represented by the   members, to participate in the activities of the   when matters of interest to such departments or agencies are under consideration.

(3)(A) Operating Committee.   ("OC") of the   is established. The Secretary shall appoint its  , who shall also serve as Executive Secretary of the  . Its other members shall be representatives of appropriate agencies in  ,  ,  , and  , and  . The appropriate representatives of   and   shall be nonvoting members of the OC. The   may invite representatives of other   departments or agencies, other than the departments and agencies represented by the OC members, to participate in the activities of the OC when matters of interest to such departments or agencies are under consideration.

(B) The OC shall review all license applications on which the reviewing departments and agencies are not in agreement. The Chair of the OC shall consider the recommendations of the reviewing departments and agencies and inform them of his or her decision on any such matters within   after the deadline for receiving department and agency recommendations. As described below, any reviewing department or agency may appeal the decision of the Chair of the OC to the Chair of the  . In the absence of a timely appeal, the  's decision will be final.

(b)  . (1) If any department or agency disagrees with a licensing determination of   made through the OC, it may appeal the matter to the ACEP for resolution. A department or agency must appeal a matter within   of such a decision. Appeals must be in writing from an official appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the  , or an officer properly acting in such capacity, and must cite both the statutory and the regulatory bases for the appeal. The ACEP shall review all departments' and agencies' information and recommendations, and the Chair of the ACEP shall inform the reviewing departments and agencies of the majority vote decision of the   within   from the date of receiving notice of the appeal. Within   of the majority vote decision, any dissenting department or agency may appeal the decision by submitting a letter from the head of the department or agency to the Secretary in his or her capacity as  . Such letter shall cite both the statutory and the regulatory bases for the appeal. Within  , the Secretary may call a meeting on his or her own initiative to consider a license application. In the absence of a timely appeal, the majority vote decision of the   shall be final.

(2) The Board shall review all departments' and agencies' information and recommendations, and such other export control matters as may be appropriate. The Secretary shall inform the reviewing departments and agencies of the majority vote of the   within   from the date of receiving notice of appeal. Within   of the decision, any department or agency dissenting from the majority vote decision of the   may appeal the decision by submitting a letter from the head of the dissenting department or agency to the President. In the absence of a timely appeal, the majority vote decision of the   shall be final.

 . 6. The license review process in this order shall take effect beginning with those license applications registered by the Secretary   after the date of this order and shall continue in effect to the extent not inconsistent with any renewal of the Export Administration Act, or with any successor to that Act.

 . 7.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any rights to administrative or judicial review, or any other right or benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
