Section 1. Establishment. There is established  , and the Next Generation Internet" ("Committee"). The   shall consist of not more than 25 nonfederal members appointed by the President, including representatives of the research, education, and library communities, network providers, and representatives from critical industries. The President shall designate co-chairs from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. The   shall provide   ( ), through the Director of   ("Director"), with advice and information on high-performance computing and communications, information technology, and the Next Generation Internet. The   shall provide an independent assessment of:

(1) progress made in implementing the High-Performance Computing and Communications (HPCC) Program;

(2) progress in designing and implementing the Next Generation Internet initiative;

(3) the need to revise  ;

(4) balance among components of  ;

(5) whether the research and development undertaken pursuant to   is helping to maintain   leadership in advanced computing and communications technologies and their applications; and

(6) other issues as specified by the Director.

 . 3. Administration. To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the financial and administrative support for the  . Further, the Director of  , and Communications ("Director of the  ") shall provide such coordination and technical assistance to the   as the co-chairs of the   may request.

(a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the   such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b) The co-chairs may, from time to time, invite experts to submit information to the   and may form subcommittees or working groups within the   to review specific issues.

(c) Members of the   shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , that are applicable to the   shall be performed by the Director of the   in accordance with guidelines that have been issued by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended by the President prior to such date.
