Section 1. Establishment. There is established within   the "President's  " ("Board"). The   shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the President from among persons in private life who are noted for their stature and expertise regarding the proliferation of strategic and advanced conventional weapons and are from diverse backgrounds. The President shall designate one of the members as  .

 . 2. Functions. The   shall advise the President on implementation of   conventional arms transfer policy, other issues related to arms proliferation policy, and on other matters deemed appropriate by the President. The   shall report to the President through the Assistant to the President for  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the   such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. (b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law, including 5 U.S.C.   and section 7(d) of the Act, for persons serving intermittently in government service. (c)   or the head of any other   or agency may detail to the  , upon request of  , any of the personnel of the department or agency to assist the   in carrying out its duties. (d) The Secretary of   shall designate a federally funded research and development center with expertise in the matters covered by the   to provide the   with such support services as the   may need to carry out its duties. (e)   shall provide the   with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4. General. (a) The   shall terminate   after the date on which the President submits the final report of the   to the  . (b) For reasons of national security or for such other reasons as specified in section 552(b) of title 5, United States Code, the   shall not provide public notice or access to meetings at which national security information will be discussed. Authority to make such determinations shall reside with the Secretary of   or his designee who must be an official required to be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the  . (c) Information made available to the   shall be given all necessary security protection in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. (d) Each member of the   and each member of the  's staff shall execute an agreement not to reveal any classified information obtained by virtue of his or her service with the   except as authorized by applicable law and regulations.
