Section 1. Establishment. There is established   ("the  ").

 . 2. Membership. The   shall comprise the:

(a) President, who shall serve as Chairman of the  ;

(b) Vice President;

(c) Secretary of  ;

(d) Secretary of the  ;

(e) Secretary of  ;

(f) Secretary of  ;

(g) Secretary of  ;

(h) Secretary of  ;

(i) Secretary of  ;

(j) Secretary of  ;

(k) Administrator of  ;

(l) Chair of  ;

(m) Director of  ;

(n)   Representative;

(o) Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(p) Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(q) National Security Adviser;

(r) Assistant to the President for  ; and

(s) Such other officials of executive departments and agencies as the President may, from time to time, designate.  . 3. Meetings of the  . The President, or upon his direction, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy ("the Assistant"), may convene meetings of the  . The President shall preside over the meetings of the  , provided that in his absence the Vice President, and in his absence the Assistant, will preside.

 . 4. Functions. (a) The principal functions of the   are: (1) to coordinate the economic policy-making process with respect to domestic and international economic issues; (2) to coordinate economic policy advice to the President; (3) to ensure that economic policy decisions and programs are consistent with the President’s stated goals, and to ensure that those goals are being effectively pursued; and (4) to monitor implementation of the President’s economic policy agenda. The Assistant may take such actions, including drafting a Charter, as may be necessary or appropriate to implement such functions.

(b) All executive departments and agencies, whether or not represented on the  , shall coordinate economic policy through the  .

(c) In performing the foregoing functions, the Assistant will, when appropriate, work in conjunction with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and the Assistant to the President for  .

(d) The Secretary of the   will continue to be the senior economic official in the executive branch and the President’s chief economic spokesperson. The Director of  , as the President’s principal budget spokesperson, will continue to be the senior budget official in the executive branch.   will continue its traditional analytic, forecasting and advisory functions.

 . 5. Administration. (a) The   may function through established or ad hoc committees, task forces or interagency groups.

(b) The   shall have a staff to be headed by the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy. The   shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order.

(c) All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   and provide such assistance, information, and advice to the   as the   may request, to the extent permitted by law.
