Section 1. Policy. A quality education is essential to the success of every child in   and to the continued strength and prosperity of our Nation. Our Nation has embraced the goal of promoting high educational standards for all children and increasing accountability in education. Although we know it is crucial that all children have access to the educational resources and opportunity necessary to achieve high standards, long-standing gaps in access to educational resources exist, including disparities based on race and ethnicity. These gaps limit the ability of individuals, as well as our  , to reach their full potential. Therefore, it is the policy of this Administration that our   undertake appropriate steps to understand fully the current status of resource equity in education and to identify and implement strategies at the local,  , and national levels that will ensure that all students have a full and equal opportunity to succeed.

 . 2. Establishment. To carry out this policy, there is established the "President’s Commission on Educational Resource Equity" (Commission). The   shall be composed of not more than 13 members appointed by the President from the public and private sectors. The members may include current and former  , and local government officials, corporate and foundation leaders, recognized education and civil rights experts, educational practitioners, and others with experience and expertise in educational resource equity. The President shall designate from among the   members such official or officials to be chairperson or chairpersons, as he shall deem appropriate.

 . 3. Duties and Commission Report. (a) The   shall collect and review information about the current status of gaps in the availability of educational resources, including the underlying causes and effects of such resource gaps. The   shall, as appropriate, invite experts and communities to provide information and guidance in furtherance of their duties.

(b) Not  , the   shall prepare and submit a report for the President and the   on the issue of resource equity in education. The report shall include, but not be limited to:

(i)

An analysis of the status of resource equity in education with regard to such factors as finances, staff, facilities, instructional programs, and support services, taking into account, as appropriate, differences in costs and needs for different students and communities;

(ii)

An analysis of how resource gaps in education affect the success of individuals and our  ;

(iii) An examination of the effectiveness of targeted Federal resources toward disadvantaged students and low-income schools as compared with the provision of   and local resources toward disadvantaged students and low-income schools;

(iv) A summary of best practices with regard to overcoming gaps in the availability of educational resources; and

(v) Short- and long-term recommendations for educational policy makers, including local,  , and   officials, to achieve resource equity in education.

 . 4. Administration, Compensation, and Termination. (a)   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide administrative support and funding for the  .

(b)

Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but while engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from among private citizens of   shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ) to the extent funds are available for such purposes.

(c)

The functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , that are applicable to the  , shall be performed by   in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

(d)

The chairperson (or chairpersons) may from time to time prescribe such rules, procedures, and policies relating to the activities of the   as are not inconsistent with law or with the provisions of this order.

(e)

The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report, unless extended by the President.
