Section 1. Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date:

(a) all property and interests in property of the  ; and

(b) all property and interests in property of persons determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General:

(i) to be owned or controlled by, or to act for or on behalf of, the  ; or

(ii) to provide financial, material, or technological support for, or services in support of, any of the foregoing, that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, are blocked.

 . 2. Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date:

(a) any transaction or dealing by   persons or within   in property or interests in property blocked pursuant to this order is prohibited, including the making or receiving of any contribution of funds, goods, or services to or for the benefit of the   or persons designated pursuant to this order;

(b) the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from  , or by a   person, wherever located, of any goods, software, technology (including technical data), or services to the territory of   controlled by the   or to the   or persons designated pursuant to this order is prohibited;

(c) the importation into   of any goods, software, technology, or services owned or controlled by the   or persons designated pursuant to this order or from the territory of   controlled by the   is prohibited;

(d) any transaction by any   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited; and (e) any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby directed to authorize commercial sales of agricultural commodities and products, medicine, and medical equipment for civilian end use in the territory of   controlled by the   under appropriate safeguards to prevent diversion to military, paramilitary, or terrorist end users or end use or to political end use.

 . 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group, or subgroup;

(c) the term "the  " means the political/military entity headquartered in  ,   that as of the date of this order exercises de facto control over the territory of   described in paragraph (d) of this section, its agencies and instrumentalities, and the   leaders listed in the   to this order or designated by the Secretary of   in consultation with the Secretary of the   and the Attorney General. The   is also known as the "Taleban," "Islamic Movement of Taliban," " ," "Talibano Islami Tahrik," and "Tahrike Islami'a  ";

(d) the term "territory of   controlled by the  " means the territory referred to as  ," known in Pashtun as "de Afghanistan Islami Emarat" or in   as "Emarat Islami-e  ," including the following provinces of the country of  :  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Ghowr, Oruzghon,  , Paktiha,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  . The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , is hereby authorized to modify the description of the term "territory of   controlled by the  ";

(e) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
