Section 1. Accommodation of Sacred Sites. (a) In managing Federal lands, each executive branch agency with statutory or administrative responsibility for the management of   lands shall, to the extent practicable, permitted by law, and not clearly inconsistent with essential agency functions, (1) accommodate access to and ceremonial use of   sacred sites by   religious practitioners and (2) avoid adversely affecting the physical integrity of such sacred sites. Where appropriate, agencies shall maintain the confidentiality of sacred sites.

(b) For purposes of this order:

(i) "Federal lands" means any land or interests in land owned by  , including leasehold interests held by  , except   trust lands;

(ii) "  tribe" means an   or   tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the   acknowledges to exist as an   tribe pursuant to Public Law No. 103-454, 108 Stat.  , and " " refers to a member of such an   tribe; and

(iii) "Sacred site" means any specific, discrete, narrowly delineated location on Federal land that is identified by an   tribe, or   individual determined to be an appropriately authoritative representative of an   religion, as sacred by virtue of its established religious significance to, or ceremonial use by, an   religion; provided that the tribe or appropriately authoritative representative of an   religion has informed the agency of the existence of such a site.

 . 2. Procedures. (a) Each executive branch agency with statutory or administrative responsibility for the management of   lands shall, as appropriate, promptly implement procedures for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of section 1 of this order, including, where practicable and appropriate, procedures to ensure reasonable notice is provided of proposed actions or land management policies that may restrict future access to or ceremonial use of, or adversely affect the physical integrity of, sacred sites. In all actions pursuant to this section, agencies shall comply with the   memorandum of  , "Government-to-Government Relations with   Tribal Governments."

(b) Within   of the effective date of this order, the head of each executive branch agency with statutory or administrative responsibility for the management of   lands shall report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, on the implementation of this order. Such reports shall address, among other things, (i) any changes necessary to accommodate access to and ceremonial use of   sacred sites; (ii) any changes necessary to avoid adversely affecting the physical integrity of   sacred sites; and (iii) procedures implemented or proposed to facilitate consultation with appropriate   tribes and religious leaders and the expeditious resolution of disputes relating to agency action on   lands that may adversely affect access to, ceremonial use of, or the physical integrity of sacred sites.

 . 3. Nothing in this order shall be construed to require a taking of vested property interests. Nor shall this order be construed to impair enforceable rights to use of   lands that have been granted to third parties through final agency action. For purposes of this order, "agency action" has the same meaning as in the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551(13)).

 . 4. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, nor does it, create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by any party against  , its agencies, officers, or any person.
