Section 1. Amendment of Executive Order  . (a) Section 5(a)(3)(B) of Executive   is amended to read as follows:

(B) The OC shall review all license applications on which the reviewing departments and agencies are not in agreement. The Chair of the OC shall consider the recommendations of the reviewing departments and agencies and inform them of his or her decision on any such matters within   after the deadline for receiving department and agency recommendations. However, for license applications concerning commercial communication satellites and hot-section technologies for the development, production, and overhaul of commercial aircraft engines that are transferred from   to the Commerce Control List pursuant to regulations issued by   after the date of this order, the Chair of the OC shall inform reviewing departments and agencies of the majority vote decision of the OC. As described below, any reviewing department or agency may appeal the decision of the Chair of the OC, or the majority vote decision of the OC in cases concerning the commercial communication satellites and hot-section technologies described above, to the Chair of the  . In the absence of a timely appeal, the  's decision (or the majority vote decision in the case of license applications concerning the commercial communication satellites and hot-section technologies described above) will be final.

(b) Section 5(b)(1) of Executive   is amended to read as follows:

(1) If any department or agency disagrees with a licensing determination of   made through the Chair of the OC (or a majority vote decision of the OC in the case of license applications concerning the commercial communication satellites and the hot-section technologies described in section 5(a)(3)(B)), it may appeal the matter to the ACEP for resolution.

A department or agency must appeal a matter within   of such a decision. Appeals must be in writing from an official appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the  , or an officer properly acting in such capacity, and must cite both the statutory and the regulatory bases for the appeal.

The ACEP shall review all departments' and agencies' information and recommendations, and the Chair of the ACEP shall inform the reviewing departments and agencies of the majority vote decision of the   within   from the date of receiving notice of the appeal. Within   of the majority vote decision, any dissenting department or agency may appeal the decision by submitting a letter from the head of the department or agency to the Secretary in his or her capacity as  .

Such letter shall cite both the statutory and the regulatory bases for the appeal. Within the same   period, the Secretary may call a meeting on his or her own initiative to consider a license application. In the absence of a timely appeal, the majority vote decision of the   shall be final.

 . 2.  . This order is not intended to create, nor does it create, any rights to administrative or judicial review, or any other right or benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 3.  . This order shall be effective immediately and shall remain in effect until terminated.
