Section 1. Review of Policies and  . (a) Each executive branch department and agency that conducts, supports, or regulates research involving human subjects shall promptly review the protections of the rights and welfare of human research subjects that are afforded by the department's or agency's existing policies and procedures. In conducting this review, departments and agencies shall take account of the recommendations contained in the report of  .

(b) Within   of this order, each department and agency that conducts, supports, or regulates research involving human subjects shall report the results of the review required by paragraph (a) of this section to  , created pursuant to this order. The report shall include an identification of measures that the department or agency plans or proposes to implement to enhance human subject protections. As set forth in section 5 of this order,   shall pursue, as its first priority, protection of the rights and welfare of human research subjects.

(c) For purposes of this order, the terms "research" and "human subject" shall have the meaning set forth in the    .

 . 2.  . Each executive branch department and agency that conducts, supports, or regulates research involving human subjects shall, to the extent practicable and appropriate, develop professional and public educational programs to enhance activities related to human subjects protection, provide forums for addressing ongoing and emerging issues in human subjects research, and familiarize professionals engaged in nonfederally-funded research with the ethical considerations associated with conducting research involving human subjects. Where appropriate, such professional and educational programs should be organized and conducted with the participation of medical schools, universities, scientific societies, voluntary health organizations, or other interested parties.

 . 3. Establishment of  . (a) There is hereby established a   ("NBAC").   shall be composed of not more than 15 members to be appointed by the President.   shall be subject to  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.).

(b) The President shall designate a   from among the members of  .

 . 4. Functions. (a)   shall provide advice and make recommendations to   and to other appropriate government entities regarding the following matters:

(1) the appropriateness of departmental, agency, or other governmental programs, policies, assignments, missions, guidelines, and regulations as they relate to bioethical issues arising from research on human biology and behavior; and

(2) applications, including the clinical applications, of that research.

(b)   shall identify broad principles to govern the ethical conduct of research, citing specific projects only as illustrations for such principles.

(c)   shall not be responsible for the review and approval of specific projects.

(d) In addition to responding to requests for advice and recommendations from  ,   also may accept suggestions of issues for consideration from both the   and the public.   also may identify other bioethical issues for the purpose of providing advice and recommendations, subject to the approval of  .

 . 5. Priorities. (a) As a first priority,   shall direct its attention to consideration of: protection of the rights and welfare of human research subjects; and issues in the management and use of genetic information, including but not limited to, human gene patenting.

(b)   shall consider four criteria in establishing the other priorities for its activities:

(1) the public health or public policy urgency of the bioethical issue;

(2) the relation of the bioethical issue to the goals for Federal investment in science and technology;

(3) the absence of another entity able to deliberate appropriately on the bioethical issue; and

(4) the extent of interest in the issue within  .

 . 6. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide   with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b)   may conduct inquiries, hold hearings, and establish subcommittees, as necessary. The Assistant to the President for   and the Secretary of   shall be notified upon establishment of each subcommittee, and shall be provided information on the name, membership (including chair), function, estimated duration, and estimated frequency of meetings of the subcommittee.

(c)   is authorized to conduct analyses and develop reports or other materials. In order to augment the expertise present on  , the Secretary of   may contract for the services of nongovernmental consultants who may conduct analyses, prepare reports and background papers, or prepare other materials for consideration by  , as appropriate.

(d) Members of   shall be compensated in accordance with Federal law. Members of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(e) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide   with such funds as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. The Secretary of   shall provide management and support services to  .

 . 7.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b)   shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended prior to that date.

(c) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and it is not intended to create any right, benefit, trust, or responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , it agencies, its officers, or any person.
