Section 1. Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses, which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of: (a) the   military and paramilitary forces and the authorities in those areas of   under the control of those forces;

(b) any entity, including any commercial, industrial, or public utility undertaking, organized or located in those areas of   under the control of   forces;

(c) any entity, wherever organized or located, which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by any person in, or resident in, those areas of   under the control of   forces;

(d) any person acting for or on behalf of any person included within the scope of paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section; that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked.

 . 2. Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses, which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order: (a) the provision or exportation of services to those areas of   under the control of   forces, or to any person for the purpose of any business carried on in those areas, either from   or by a   person, is prohibited; and

(b) No vessel registered in   or owned or controlled by a   person, other than a   naval vessel, may enter the riverine ports of those areas of   under the control of   forces.

 . 3. Any transaction by any   person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by   and   of  , as amended, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate the authority set forth in this order to other officers and agencies of  , all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 5. Nothing in this order shall apply to activities related to  ,    , or  .

 . 6. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) The term "entity" means a corporation, partnership, association, or other organization;

(c) The term "  person" is as defined in section 5 of Executive Order No.  .

 . 7. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 8. (a) This order shall take effect at 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
