Section 1. Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  .

(a) Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(b)  ; Executive  , as amended ( ).

(c)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(d) President's   for    ; Executive   ( ).

(e) President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(f) President's Commission on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(g) President's  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(h) President's   and the  ; Executive  , as amended (National Endowment for the Arts).

(i) President's  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(j) President's Committee on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(k) President's  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(l) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(m) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(n) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(o) Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive Order   ( ).

 . 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order, except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 3. The following Executive orders which established committees that have terminated and whose work is completed, are revoked:

(a) Executive Order  , establishing  ;

(b) Executive Order  , as amended by Executive Orders   and  , establishing the   on   and Investment Policy;

(c) Executive Order  , establishing the President's  ;

(d) Executive Order  , as amended by Executive Orders  , and  , establishing   on  ; and

(e) Executive  , establishing  .

 . 4. Executive   is superseded.

 . 5 In Executive Order  , the second sentence of section 1 is amended by deleting "15" and inserting "22" in lieu thereof.

 . 6. Executive   is amended by revising section 1 to read as follows: "A   citizen who is a family member of a   civilian employee who has separated from Federal service to accept employment with   in   pursuant to section 11 of Public Law 96-8 (22 U.S.C. 3310(a)) may be appointed noncompetitively in a manner similar to noncompetitive appointments under Executive Order   and implementing regulations of   to a competitive service position in the executive branch, provided such family member meets the qualifications and other requirements established by the Director of  , including an appropriate period of satisfactory overseas employment with   in  ."

 . 7. This order shall be effective  .
