113 HJ 4 IH: Proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-01-03
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. J. RES. 4
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 3, 2013
Mr. Barrow
(for
himself and
Mr. Cuellar
) introduced
the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the
Judiciary
JOINT RESOLUTION
Proposing a balanced budget amendment to
the Constitution of the United States.
That the following article is
proposed as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall
be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when ratified
by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years
after the date of its submission for ratification:
 —
1.
Total outlays for any fiscal year shall not
exceed total receipts for that fiscal year, unless three-fifths of the whole
number of each House of Congress shall provide by law for a specific excess of
outlays over receipts by a rollcall vote.
2.
Prior to each fiscal year, the President
shall transmit to the Congress a proposed budget for the United States
Government for that fiscal year in which total outlays do not exceed total
receipts.
3.
The Congress may waive the provisions of
this article for any fiscal year in which a declaration of war is in effect.
The provisions of this article may be waived for any fiscal year in which the
United States is engaged in military conflict which causes an imminent and
serious military threat to national security and is so declared by a joint
resolution, adopted by a majority of the whole number of each House, which
becomes law.
4.
The Congress shall enforce and implement
this article by appropriate legislation, which may rely on estimates of outlays
and receipts. The appropriate committees of the House of Representatives and
the Senate shall report to their respective Houses implementing legislation to
achieve a balanced budget without reducing the disbursements of the Federal
Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance
Trust Fund to achieve that goal.
5.
Total receipts shall include all receipts
of the United States Government except those derived from borrowing. Total
outlays shall include all outlays of the United States Government except for
those for repayment of debt principal.
6.
This article shall take effect beginning
with the later of the second fiscal year beginning after its ratification or
the first fiscal year beginning after December 31,
2022.
.
