113 HJ 125 IH: Authorization for Use of Military Force Against ISIL
U.S. House of Representatives
2014-09-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. J. RES. 125
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 16, 2014
Mr. Schiff
introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
JOINT RESOLUTION
To authorize the use of United States Armed Forces against the terrorist organization Islamic State
of Iraq and the Levant (
ISIL
).
Whereas for months Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (
ISIL
) has been engaged in an almost unchecked campaign of murder and mayhem across a broad swath of
Iraq and Syria that has killed thousands of innocent people and terrorized
millions;
Whereas ISIL has brought under its control large areas of Iraq and Syria and announced on June 29,
2014, the establishment of a new caliphate;
Whereas in its conduct of military operations, its treatment of personnel captured on the
battlefield, and its behavior towards civilians in areas under its
control, ISIL has shown a level of brutality and depravity that shocks the
conscience;
Whereas ISIL brutally murdered two American journalists and a British aid worker and has threatened
the lives of other western hostages;
Whereas the threat posed by the recruitment of ISIL fighters in the United States and Europe and
the prospect of these fighters returning to the United States or allied
countries jeopardizes the security of the United States and its allies;
Whereas ISIL poses an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy
of the United States and if left unchecked will be the locus of plots to
attack our homeland;
Whereas the rise of ISIL, the continuing threat posed by al Qaeda, and the pending redeployment of
United States combat troops from Afghanistan highlight the need to
re-examine and harmonize the legal authorities under which the President
is authorized to take offensive military action; and
Whereas the President has authority under the Constitution to take action to protect the United
States and its citizens from imminent threat or attack but Congress alone
holds the power to declare war: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Short title
This joint resolution may be cited as the
Authorization for Use of Military Force Against ISIL
Resolution
.
2.
Authorization for use of United States Armed Forces
(a)
In general
The President is authorized to use the Armed Forces of the United States against the Islamic State
of Iraq and the Levant (
ISIL
).
(b)
Geographical limitation
The authority granted in subsection (a) shall be confined to the territory of the Republic of Iraq
and the Syrian Arab Republic. The limitation of this subsection shall not
apply to the Armed Forces of the United States engaged in training of
indigenous Syrian or regional military forces for the purpose of combating
ISIL.
(c)
No authorization for use of ground forces in combat
The authority granted in subsection (a) does not include the authority for the deployment of ground
forces in a combat role. For purposes of this subsection,
ground forces in a combat role
does not include special operations forces or other forces that may be deployed in a training,
advisory, or intelligence capacity.
(d)
Termination
The authority granted in subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 18 months after the
date of the enactment of this joint resolution.
(e)
War powers resolution requirements
(1)
Specific statutory authorization
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, the Congress declares that this
section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within
the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution.
(2)
Applicability of other requirements
Nothing in this joint resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution.
3.
Repeal of prior authorizations for use of United States Armed Forces
(a)
Repeal
The following provisions of law are hereby repealed:
(1)
The Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002 (
Public Law 107–243
; 50
U.S.C. 1541 note).
(2)
The Authorization for Use of Military Force (
Public Law 107–40
;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note).
(b)
Effective date
The repeal made by subsection (a)(2) shall be effective as of the date that is 18 months after the
date of the enactment of this joint resolution.
4.
Reports to Congress
(a)
In general
The President shall, at least once every 60 days after the date of the enactment of this joint
resolution, submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the
President pro tempore of the Senate a report on matters relevant to this
joint resolution, including actions taken pursuant to the exercise of
authority granted in section 2 and the status of planning for efforts that
are expected to be required over the next 60 days.
(b)
Consolidation
To the extent that the submission of any report required in subsection (a) coincides with the
submissions of any other report on matters relevant to this joint
resolution otherwise required to be submitted to Congress pursuant to the
reporting requirements of the War Powers Resolution, all such reports may
be submitted as a single consolidated report to the Speaker of the House
of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate.
