1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DHS Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of Concern Act
.
2.
Limitations on Confucius Institutes’ host schools
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Chinese entity of concern
The term
Chinese entity of concern
means any university or college in the People’s Republic of China that—
(A)
is involved in the implementation of military-civil fusion;
(B)
participates in the Chinese defense industrial base;
(C)
is affiliated with the Chinese State Administration for Science, Technology, and Industry for the National Defense;
(D)
receives funding from any organization subordinate to the Central Military Commission of the Chinese Communist Party; or
(E)
provides support to any security, defense, police, or intelligence organization of the Government of the People’s Republic of China or the Chinese Communist Party.
(2)
Confucius Institute
The term
Confucius Institute
means a cultural institute funded by the Government of the People’s Republic of China.
(3)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given the term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
).
(4)
Relationship
The term
relationship
means, with respect to an institution of higher education, any contract awarded, or agreement entered into, as well as any in-kind donation or gift, received from a Confucius Institute or Chinese entity of concern.
(b)
Restrictions on institutions of higher education
(1)
In general
Beginning with the first fiscal year that begins after the date that is 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that an institution of higher education that has a relationship with a Confucius Institute or Chinese entity of concern is ineligible to receive any funds from the Department of Homeland Security, unless the institution of higher education terminates the relationship between the institution of higher education and such Confucius Institute or Chinese entity of concern, as the case may be.
(2)
Termination
Upon the termination of a relationship described in paragraph (1), the institution of higher education at issue shall be eligible to receive funds from the Department of Homeland Security.
