1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Recouping Educational Contributions Linked to Antisemitic Institutional Misconduct Act
or the
RECLAIM Act
.
2.
Effect on entire program of termination of or refusal to grant or to continue assistance
Section 602 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (
42 U.S.C. 2000d–1
) is amended, in paragraph (1) of the third sentence, by striking
shall be limited in its effect to the particular program, or part thereof, in which such noncompliance has been so found,
and inserting
shall apply to the entire program or activity in which such noncompliance has been so found,
.
3.
Recouping certain payments of Federal financial assistance
Section 602 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (
42 U.S.C. 2000d–1
) is amended, in the third sentence—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
(2)
by inserting after
found,
the following:
(2) by requiring a recipient to repay the amount of any Federal financial assistance provided to the recipient for a program or activity for a fiscal year during which the recipient is found (in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (1)) to be in such noncompliance concerning the program or activity (without regard to whether the Federal financial assistance has been expended), which shall be collected as a claim of the United States Government in accordance with
chapter 37
of title 31, United States Code,
.
4.
Limit on Federal financial assistance after certain injunctions
Section 603 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (
42 U.S.C. 2000d–2
) is amended—
(1)
in the first sentence, by striking
Any
and inserting
(a) Any
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(b)
If a court issues an injunction in a case, for a claim in which a recipient of Federal financial assistance for a program or activity is alleged to be in violation of this title—
(1)
the Federal department or agency empowered to extend the Federal financial assistance shall not provide any Federal financial assistance to the recipient until the earlier of—
(A)
the date on which the court certifies that the recipient is in compliance with the injunction; or
(B)
the date that is 1 year after the date of issuance of the injunction;
(2)
the Federal department or agency shall notify the other Federal departments and agencies covered by this title of the injunction; and
(3)
those Federal departments and agencies shall not provide any Federal financial assistance to the recipient until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraph (1).
.
