1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Endless Mountains National Heritage Area Act
.
2.
Designation of Endless Mountains National Heritage Area
(a)
Designation
Section 6001(a) of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
Public Law 116–9
; 133 Stat. 768; 136 Stat. 6163) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(14)
Endless Mountains National Heritage Area
(A)
In general
There is established as a component of the National Heritage Area System the Endless Mountains National Heritage Area in the State of Pennsylvania, to consist of Bradford, Sullivan, Susquehanna, and Wyoming Counties, Pennsylvania, and any portions of other counties in the State of Pennsylvania identified in the feasibility study for the Endless Mountains National Heritage Area, the specific boundaries of which shall be established by the Secretary based on that feasibility study.
(B)
Local coordinating entity
The Endless Mountains Heritage Region, Inc., shall be the local coordinating entity for the National Heritage Area designated by subparagraph (A).
.
(b)
Management plan
For the purposes of section 6001(c) of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
Public Law 116–9
; 133 Stat. 772; 136 Stat. 6173), the local coordinating entity for the Endless Mountains National Heritage Area designated under the amendment made by subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary of the Interior for approval a proposed management plan for the Endless Mountains National Heritage Area not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Termination of authority
For the purposes of subsection (g)(4) of section 6001 of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
Public Law 116–9
; 133 Stat. 776), the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to provide assistance under that section for the Endless Mountains National Heritage Area designated under the amendment made by subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 15 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
