1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Where’s the Workforce At Listed by Duties and Office
or the
Where’s WALDO Act
.
2.
OPM responsibilities
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Civil service
The term
civil service
has the meaning given the term in section 2101 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Contract employee
The term
contract employee
means—
(A)
an employee of a contractor; or
(B)
in the case of a contractor who is an individual who directly enters into a contract with the Federal Government, that individual.
(3)
Contractor
The term
contractor
has the meaning given the term in section 7101 of title 41, United States Code.
(4)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
(b)
Website
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall establish, and thereafter the Director shall maintain, a searchable, publicly available website that contains information regarding each individual occupying a position in the civil service, which shall include, with respect to each such individual—
(1)
the title of the position occupied by the individual;
(2)
a description of the duties of the position occupied by the individual;
(3)
the employing agency of the individual;
(4)
the primary duty station of the individual;
(5)
the annual rate of basic pay of the individual, including, with respect to a year, any bonus or supplemental wages paid to the individual; and
(6)
the date on which the individual was appointed to the position occupied by the individual.
(c)
Annual report
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director shall make publicly available a report that details, for the year covered by the report—
(A)
the total number of contract employees that worked, on a part-time or full-time basis, under applicable contracts with the Federal Government; and
(B)
the total cost incurred by the Federal Government with respect to the work described in subparagraph (A).
(2)
Breakdown of data
The data contained in each report made available under paragraph (1) shall be disaggregated by agency.
