1.
Short titles
This Act may be cited as the
Providing Appropriate Recognition and Treatment Needed to Enhance Relations with ASEAN, CERN, and PIF Act
or the
PARTNER with ASEAN, CERN, and PIF Act
.
2.
Authorization to extend the provisions of the International Organizations Immunities Act to additional international organizations
(a)
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
The International Organizations Immunities Act (
22 U.S.C. 288 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
18.
Under such terms and conditions as the President shall determine, the President is authorized to extend the provisions of this title to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in the same manner, to the same extent, and subject to the same conditions, as it may be extended to a public international organization in which the United States participates pursuant to any treaty or under the authority of any Act of Congress authorizing such participation or making an appropriation for such participation.
.
(b)
European Organization for Nuclear Research
The International Organizations Immunities Act, as amended by subsection (a), is further amended by adding at the end the following:
19.
Under such terms and conditions as the President shall determine, the President is authorized to extend the provisions of this title to the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) in the same manner, to the same extent, and subject to the same conditions, as it may be extended to a public international organization in which the United States participates pursuant to any treaty or under the authority of any Act of Congress authorizing such participation or making an appropriation for such participation.
.
(c)
Pacific Islands Forum
The International Organizations Immunities Act, as amended by subsections (a) and (b), is further amended by adding at the end the following:
20.
Under such terms and conditions as the President shall determine, the President is authorized to extend the provisions of this title to the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) in the same manner, to the same extent, and subject to the same conditions, as it may be extended to a public international organization in which the United States participates pursuant to any treaty or under the authority of any Act of Congress authorizing such participation or making an appropriation for such participation.
.
