1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Citizens First Act
.
2.
Termination of Federal benefits for noncitizens
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person who is not a citizen or national of the United States shall be eligible for any Federal public benefit (as defined in section 401(c) of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (
8 U.S.C. 1611(c)
)), including—
(1)
any form of welfare or needs-based cash assistance;
(2)
Medicaid (except emergency medical services);
(3)
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program or food stamps;
(4)
Federal housing assistance;
(5)
Federal student financial aid; and
(6)
the refundable portion of any tax credit under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
3.
Denaturalization for acts undermining domestic tranquility
Section 340 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1451
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(i)
Any naturalized citizen who, after naturalization, is convicted of, or credibly found by the Secretary of Homeland Security to have participated in, any riot, unlawful protest involving violence or property destruction, or any act intended to overthrow or disrupt the constitutional order of the United States may be denaturalized and removed pursuant to expedited proceedings under section 238, regardless of the period of time elapsed since the date on which the citizen was naturalized.
.
4.
Expedited removal expansion
Section 235(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1225(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)(A)(iii), by amending subclause (II) to read as follows:
(II)
Alien described
An alien described in this subclause is an alien who has not been admitted or paroled into the United States and who is present in the United States without having been admitted or paroled, regardless of the period of time elapsed since the date on which such alien entered the United States.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(5)
Applicability
The Secretary of Homeland Security—
(A)
shall carry out expedited removal to the fullest extent permitted by this subsection; and
(B)
shall not grant any discretionary exception to such expedited removal except in a case involving a credible fear of persecution claim that is upheld after review.
.
5.
Mandatory comprehensive security review of certain nationals of Afghanistan admitted or paroled into the United States
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall—
(1)
conduct a comprehensive security review, including re-interviews and biometric checks, of each national of Afghanistan admitted as a refugee or pursuant to a special immigrant visa, or paroled into the United States, during the period beginning on January 20, 2021, and the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2)
upon completion of such review, submit to Congress a certification of such completion.
(b)
Expedited removal for security risks
Any individual subject to review under subsection (a) who the Secretary of Homeland Security determines poses a risk to national security or public safety shall be subject to expedited removal under section 235(b)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(1)
).
(c)
Suspension of Afghan special immigrant visa and refugee processing
Effective immediately, the processing of applications by nationals of Afghanistan for special immigrant or refugee status shall be suspended until the date on which the certification under subsection (a)(2) is submitted.
(d)
Limitation on funds for resettlement support
No Federal funds may be used for resettlement support for nationals of Afghanistan until the date on which the certification under subsection (a)(2) is submitted.
6.
Termination of temporary protected status for high-risk nationals
Section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1254a
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(j)
Automatic termination of status
(1)
In general
The temporary protected status of nationals of a country designated under subsection (b) shall automatically terminate—
(A)
upon a finding by the Secretary of Homeland Security that conditions in such country no longer warrant such designation; or
(B)
on the date on which the Secretary submits a report under paragraph (2)(A)(ii) indicating that the crime rate among such nationals exceeds the national average crime rate by not less than 20 percent.
(2)
Semiannual crime rate calculation
(A)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall—
(i)
calculate—
(I)
the crime rate among nationals of each country designated under subsection (b); and
(II)
the national average crime rate; and
(ii)
submit a report to Congress that describes such crime rates.
(B)
Inclusion
In calculating a crime rate under subparagraph (A)(i), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall include all offenses, including—
(i)
civil offenses;
(ii)
traffic violations;
(iii)
misdemeanors; and
(iv)
felonies.
(3)
Retroactive application
Paragraph (1) shall apply retroactively to designations made under subsection (b) after January 20, 2021, including the designations of Afghanistan, Haiti, Venezuela, and Somalia.
.
