1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Judicial Relief Clarification Act of 2025
.
2.
Non-party relief
(a)
In general
Chapter 155
of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
2285.
Non-party relief
No court of the United States (and no district court of the Virgin Islands, Guam, or the Northern Mariana Islands) shall issue any order, including an injunction, vacatur, stay, temporary restraining order, declaratory relief, or equitable relief, that purports to restrain the enforcement against a non-party or compel action in favor of a non-party with respect to any statute, regulation, order, executive action, or similar authority, unless the court determines the non-party is represented by a party acting in a representative capacity pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 155
of title 28, United States Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2285 the following:
2285. Non-party relief.
.
3.
Temporary restraining orders
Section 1292(a) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(4)
Temporary restraining orders issued pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure or any other authority that purports to restrain the enforcement of, or compel action with respect to, any statute, regulation, order, executive action, or similar authority, by the United States or one of the several States within the meaning of section 1332, an agency thereof, or an officer or employee thereof acting in an official capacity.
.
4.
Declaratory judgments
Section 2201(a) of title 28, United States Code, is amended, in the first sentence, by inserting
before the court
after
party
.
5.
Judicial review
Chapter 7
of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in section 705, in the second sentence, by inserting
limited to a person, as defined in section 551, before the court
after
process
; and
(2)
in section 706—
(A)
in the second sentence of the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting
, limited to a person, as defined in section 551, before the court
after
shall
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
and set aside
.
6.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act, or an amendment made by this Act, shall be construed to imply that Federal courts otherwise possess the authority to grant relief that is prohibited by this Act and the amendments made by this Act.
