117 HCON 119 IH: Providing for a correction in the enrollment of H.J. Res. 100.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-11-29
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. CON. RES. 119
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 29, 2022
Mr. DeFazio
submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
, and in addition to the Committee on
House Administration
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Providing for a correction in the enrollment of H.J. Res. 100.
That, in the enrollment of the joint resolution H.J. Res. 100, the Clerk of the House of Representatives shall make the following corrections:
(1)
Amend section 1—
(A)
by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
(B)
by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
(b)
Paid sick leave
(1)
In general
Any tentative agreements, side letters, or local carrier agreements entered into by the parties and ratified before the date of enactment of this joint resolution and the tentative agreements, side letters, and local carrier agreements made binding by subsection (a) shall, beginning 60 days after the date of enactment of this joint resolution, provide—
(A)
for 7 days of paid sick leave annually, except that nothing in this subparagraph shall supersede any existing labor agreement between such parties that provides for more than 7 days of paid sick leave annually; and
(B)
that the use of any 7 days of paid sick leave annually, regardless of whether such days are provided under a tentative agreement, side letter, or local carrier agreement or under an existing labor agreement described in subparagraph (A), will not result in any points, demerits, or disciplinary citations under any party's attendance policy.
(2)
Effect
The modification referenced in paragraph (1) shall each have the same effect as though arrived at by agreement of such parties under the Railway Labor Act (
45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.
).
.
(2)
Redesignate section 2 as section 3.
(3)
After section 1, insert the following:
2.
Negotiations and arbitration
(a)
Negotiations
The parties to the disputes subject to Presidential Emergency Board No. 250, established pursuant to Executive Order 14077 of July 15, 2022, shall negotiate the implementation of the 7 days of paid sick leave imposed on such parties by section 1(b).
(b)
Binding arbitration
If, after 30 days after the date of enactment of this joint resolution, the parties are not able to reach agreement on the matter described in subsection (a), such parties shall enter into binding arbitration on such matter to provide for a final resolution of such unresolved matter.
(c)
Arbitration
The arbitration described in subsection (b) shall be conducted pursuant to the provisions of section 7 of the Railway Labor Act (
45 U.S.C. 157
), and any award shall be enforceable under section 9 of the Railway Labor Act (
45 U.S.C. 159
), except that, in the public interest, compensation and expenses of the arbitrators shall be borne equally by the parties.
(d)
Deadline
Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this joint resolution, any binding arbitration proceeding entered into pursuant to subsection (b) shall be completed, including issuance of any award by the arbitration board.
.
