Section 1.

Identification.

(a) Within   of the submission of   (required by section 181(b) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2241)) for  ,   ("Trade Representative") shall review   trade expansion priorities and identify priority foreign country practices, the elimination of which is likely to have the most significant potential to increase   exports, either directly or through the establishment of a beneficial precedent. The Trade Representative shall submit to   of the   and   of  , and shall publish in  ,

a report on the priority foreign country practices identified.

(b) In identifying priority foreign country practices under paragraph (a) of this section, the Trade Representative shall take into account all relevant factors, including:

(1) the major barriers and trade distorting practices described in  ;

(2) the trade agreements to which a foreign country is a party and its compliance with those agreements;

(3) the medium-term and long-term implications of foreign government procurement plans; and

(4) the international competitive position and export potential of   products and services.

(c) The Trade Representative may include in the report, if appropriate, a description of the foreign country practices that may in the future warrant identification as priority foreign country practices. The Trade Representative also may include a statement about other foreign country practices that were not identified because they are already being addressed by provisions of   trade law, existing bilateral trade agreements, or in trade negotiations with other countries and progress is being made toward their elimination.

 . 2.

Initiation of Investigation.

Within   of the submission of the report required by paragraph (a) of section 1, the Trade Representative shall initiate under section 302(b)(1) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2412(b)(1)) investigations under title  , chapter 1, of the Act with respect to all of the priority foreign country practices identified.

 . 3.

Agreements for the Elimination of Barriers.

In the consultations with a foreign country that   is required to request under section 303(a) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2413(a)) with respect to an investigation initiated by reason of section 2 of this order, the   Representative shall seek to negotiate an agreement that provides for the elimination of the practices that are the subject of the investigation as quickly as possible or, if that is not feasible, provides for compensatory trade benefits. The Trade Representative shall monitor any agreement entered into under this section pursuant to the provisions of section 306 of the Act (19 U.S.C.  ).

 . 4.

Reports.

The Trade Representative shall include in the   report required by section 309 of the Act (19 U.S.C.  ) a report on the status of any investigation initiated pursuant to section 2 of this order and, where appropriate, the extent to which such investigations have led to increased opportunities for the export of products and services of  .

 . 5.

Presidential Direction.

The authorities delegated pursuant to this order shall be exercised subject to any subsequent direction by the President in a particular matter.
