117 SRES 429 ATS: Designating October 26, 2021, as the “Day of the Deployed”.
U.S. Senate
2021-10-27
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 429
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 27, 2021
Mr. Hoeven
(for himself,
Mr. Tester
,
Mr. Daines
,
Ms. Warren
,
Mr. Boozman
, and
Mr. Warnock
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Designating October 26, 2021, as the
Day of the Deployed
.
Whereas more than 2,100,000 individuals serve as members of the Armed Forces of the United States;
Whereas several hundred thousand members of the Armed Forces rotate each year through deployments to more than 150 countries and every region of the world;
Whereas more than 2,000,000 members of the Armed Forces have deployed to the area of operations of the United States Central Command since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks;
Whereas, for nearly 20 years following the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, members of the Armed Forces deployed throughout Afghanistan, and their service and bravery helped protect the United States from further terrorist attacks;
Whereas the United States is kept strong and free by the loyal military personnel from the total force, which is comprised of active components and the National Guard and the Reserves, who protect the precious heritage of the United States through their declarations and actions;
Whereas the United States remains committed to providing the fullest possible accounting for personnel missing from past conflicts ranging from World War II through current day conflicts;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces serving at home and abroad have courageously answered the call to duty to defend the ideals of the United States and to preserve peace and freedom around the world;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces continue to serve and protect the people of the United States by making deployments in the midst of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19) pandemic;
Whereas the United States remains committed to easing the transition from deployment abroad to service at home for members of the Armed Forces and the families of the members;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces personify the virtues of patriotism, service, duty, courage, and sacrifice;
Whereas the families of members of the Armed Forces make important and significant sacrifices for the United States; and
Whereas the Senate has designated October 26 as the
Day of the Deployed
since 2011: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates October 26, 2021, as the
Day of the Deployed
;
(2)
honors the deployed members of the Armed Forces of the United States and the families of the members;
(3)
calls on the people of the United States to reflect on the service of those members of the Armed Forces, wherever the members serve, past, present, and future;
(4)
is forever grateful for the uniformed men and women who served in Afghanistan and calls on the people of the United States to remember and honor their service; and
(5)
encourages the people of the United States to observe the Day of the Deployed with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
