117 SRES 493 IS: Recognizing the necessity of school choice as a tool to empower all parents with the freedom to choose the best educational environment for their children and to combat destructive ideologies like Critical Race Theory promoted by many public schools.
U.S. Senate
2022-01-19
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 493
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 19 (legislative day, January 18), 2022
Mr. Lankford
(for himself,
Mr. Cramer
,
Mr. Johnson
,
Mr. Braun
,
Mrs. Hyde-Smith
,
Mr. Cruz
,
Mr. Rubio
,
Mr. Boozman
,
Mr. Inhofe
,
Mr. Daines
, and
Mr. Wicker
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the necessity of school choice as a tool to empower all parents with the freedom to choose the best educational environment for their children and to combat destructive ideologies like Critical Race Theory promoted by many public schools.
Whereas the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States provides every American with equal protection under the law;
Whereas the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States protects Americans against compelled speech;
Whereas the idea that any race, ethnicity, color, or national origin is inherently superior or inferior should not be forced into any required curriculum;
Whereas teaching students that they are guilty or victimized based on the color of their skin is inherently discriminatory and anti-American;
Whereas parents should have the ability to choose a school for their child based on their child’s individual needs, academic goals, and personal and religious beliefs;
Whereas the COVID–19 pandemic caused schools across the country to close for a significant amount of time, creating a loss in learning progress and social and emotional skills for many students;
Whereas COVID–19-related school closures and policy changes should ensure that the individualized educational plans for students with special needs and disabilities are met;
Whereas parents are seeking more options for their child’s schooling due to learning loss, mask mandates, and COVID–19 vaccine mandates that many States and schools are imposing;
Whereas school choice is more important than ever to ensure that children can attend the school that works best for them and in light of the threats imposed by Critical Race Theory and overreaching mandates regarding COVID–19;
Whereas it is documented that certain school boards are actively silencing the voices of concerned parents and impeding their ability to have a say in their children’s education; and
Whereas Attorney General Merrick Garland has abused his office by directing Federal law enforcement to engage in local issues, thus threatening legitimately concerned parents away from advocating for their children’s right to a quality and unbiased education: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes and promotes the importance of parental involvement in their child’s education; and
(2)
recognizes the necessity of school choice as a tool to empower all parents with the freedom to choose the best educational environment for their children and to reject the destructive ideologies promoted by many public schools, such as Critical Race Theory.
