117 SRES 802 IS: Condemning any attempts by Russia to claim sovereignty over any portion of Ukraine.
U.S. Senate
2022-09-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 802
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 28, 2022
Mr. Graham
(for himself and
Mr. Blumenthal
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Condemning any attempts by Russia to claim sovereignty over any portion of Ukraine.
Whereas the Russian Federation violated the sovereignty of Ukraine beginning with the illegal annexation of Crimea and its invasion into eastern Ukraine;
Whereas beginning in February 2022, the Russian Federation sought to further violate Ukraine’s sovereignty by launching unprovoked military action against Ukraine;
Whereas on September 22, 2022, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization condemned the then upcoming referenda stating that the
[s]ham referenda in the Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia, and Kherson regions of Ukraine have no legitimacy and will be a blatant violation of the UN Charter. NATO Allies will not recognize their illegal and illegitimate annexation. These lands are Ukraine. We call on all States to reject Russia’s blatant attempts at territorial conquest
;
Whereas on September 23, 2022, President Joe Biden stated,
The United States will never recognize Ukrainian territory as anything other than part of Ukraine.
;
Whereas beginning on September 23, 2022, Russia conducted sham referenda in 4 Ukrainian regions (Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson, and Zaporizhzhia) in an attempt to validate Moscow’s illegal annexation of the territory;
Whereas reports indicate that—
(1)
Ukrainians have been forced to vote in the sham referenda
under a gun barrel
; and
(2)
Russian officials have visited schools, hospitals, and other workplaces to force Ukrainians to vote in favor of annexation; and
Whereas the Kremlin has stated that once the sham referenda are concluded, the process of absorbing the annexed areas into Russia will be completed
promptly
: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
refuses to recognize any claim of sovereignty by the Russian Federation over any portion of Ukraine;
(2)
views the recent sham referenda beginning on September 23, 2022, directed by the Government of the Russian Federation, as a violation of international law; and
(3)
calls upon the President of the United States to restrict all economic and military aid and assistance to any nation that recognizes Russian sovereignty over any portion of Ukraine.
