117 SRES 436 ATS: Honoring the individuals fighting and the individuals who have fallen responding to wildland fires during the ongoing 2021 wildfire season.
U.S. Senate
2021-11-02
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 436
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
November 2, 2021
Mr. Daines
(for himself,
Mrs. Feinstein
,
Mr. Barrasso
,
Mr. Crapo
,
Mr. Risch
,
Mr. Boozman
,
Mr. Hickenlooper
,
Mr. Padilla
, and
Mr. Heinrich
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Honoring the individuals fighting and the individuals who have fallen responding to wildland fires during the ongoing 2021 wildfire season.
Whereas more than 5,000,000 acres have burned in wildfire in 2021;
Whereas changing climates, resulting in long-term trends of warmer and drier weather, and mismanagement of the forests of the United States are exacerbating the threat of wildfires and contributing to the greater than normal fire activity in Western States, resulting in dangerous conditions for wildland firefighters;
Whereas more than 16,000 personnel have been assigned to contain and combat the fires that threaten the West;
Whereas the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19) pandemic has exacerbated the public health and public safety risks inherent in combating wildfires;
Whereas Federal job classification and pay levels for wildland firefighters were established more than 30 years ago and should be re-evaluated based on the current wildfire risk and job market; and
Whereas wildland firefighters, first responders, sheriffs, and community leaders have acted bravely and risked their lives to contain dangerous wildfires across the United States to protect families and critical infrastructure: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes the efforts and sacrifices of the wildland firefighters who have risked their lives to fight intense wildfires in 2021;
(2)
honors the bravery and heroism of the men and women assisting in responding to and combating wildfires;
(3)
expresses appreciation and gratitude to firefighters for protecting lives and property in the United States during the ongoing 2021 wildfire season;
(4)
expresses full support for communities throughout the West as those communities focus on recovery and rebuilding areas and communities affected by wildfires; and
(5)
extends gratitude and appreciation to the families and loved ones of wildland firefighters for their important role in supporting the wildland firefighter community.
