117 SRES 506 ATS: Supporting the goals of National Catholic Schools Week.
U.S. Senate
2022-02-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 506
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
February 8 (legislative day, February 3), 2022
Mr. Toomey
(for himself and
Mr. Casey
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Supporting the goals of National Catholic Schools Week.
Whereas Catholic schools in the United States are internationally acclaimed for their academic excellence and provide students with more than just an exceptional education;
Whereas Catholic schools instill a broad, values-added education emphasizing the lifelong development of moral, intellectual, physical, and social values in young people in the United States;
Whereas Catholic schools serve the United States by providing a strong academic and moral foundation to a diverse student population from all regions of the country and all socioeconomic backgrounds, and of that student population—
(1)
21.4 percent of students are from racial minority backgrounds;
(2)
18.6 percent of students are of Hispanic heritage; and
(3)
20.1 percent of students are from non-Catholic families;
Whereas Catholic schools are an affordable option for parents, particularly in underserved urban areas;
Whereas Catholic schools produce students who are strongly dedicated to their faith, values, families, and communities by providing an intellectually stimulating environment rich in spiritual, character, and moral development;
Whereas Catholic schools are committed to community service, producing graduates who hold
helping others
as a core value;
Whereas the total Catholic school student enrollment for the 2021–2022 academic year was more than 1,680,000 and the student-teacher ratio was 11.5 to 1;
Whereas the Catholic high school graduation rate is 98 percent, with 85.2 percent of graduates attending 4-year colleges;
Whereas the week of January 30, 2022, to February 5, 2022, has been designated as
National Catholic Schools Week
by the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops;
Whereas National Catholic Schools Week was first established in 1974 and has been celebrated annually for the past 48 years; and
Whereas the theme for National Catholic Schools Week 2022 is
Catholic Schools: Faith. Excellence. Service.
and reflects Catholic schools’ purpose to form students to be good citizens of the world, love God and neighbor, and enrich society with the leaven of the gospel and by example of faith: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the goals of National Catholic Schools Week, an event—
(A)
cosponsored by the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops; and
(B)
established to recognize the vital contributions of the thousands of Catholic elementary and secondary schools in the United States;
(2)
applauds the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops on their selection of a theme that all people can celebrate; and
(3)
supports—
(A)
the dedication of Catholic schools, students, parents, and teachers across the United States to academic excellence; and
(B)
the key role that Catholic schools, students, parents, and teachers across the United States play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the United States.
