117 SRES 681 ATS: Recognizing the service of the Los Angeles-class attack submarine the USS Oklahoma City and the crews of the USS Oklahoma City, who served the United States with valor and bravery.
U.S. Senate
2022-06-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 681
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 15, 2022
Mr. Lankford
(for himself and
Mr. Inhofe
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the service of the Los Angeles-class attack submarine the USS Oklahoma City and the crews of the USS Oklahoma City, who served the United States with valor and bravery.
Whereas the USS Oklahoma City is a nuclear-powered fast attack submarine named after Oklahoma City, the capital and most populous city in Oklahoma, and is the second ship in the history of the Navy to bear that name;
Whereas the motto of the USS Oklahoma City is
The Sooner, The Better
, which is a testament to both the spirit of the people of Oklahoma City and the readiness of the 140-person crew of the USS Oklahoma City;
Whereas the USS Oklahoma City was christened and launched on November 2, 1985, sponsored by Linda M. Nickles, and was commissioned for service on July 9, 1988, with Commander Kevin John Reardon as the first commanding officer of the submarine;
Whereas, since the commissioning of the USS Oklahoma City, the USS Oklahoma City has traveled around the globe multiple times and has served in the Mediterranean, the Persian Gulf, the Pacific, and, most recently, Apra Harbor, Guam;
Whereas, in the aftermath of the April 19, 1995, bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, the crew of the USS Oklahoma City donated blood in support of the victims of the deadliest act of homegrown terrorism in the history of the United States, which resulted in the deaths of 168 individuals;
Whereas the USS Oklahoma City was the first Navy submarine to transition from navigation using paper charts to an all-electronic navigation suite;
Whereas, on Friday, May 20, 2022, the inactivation ceremony for the USS Oklahoma City was held in Puget Sound Naval Shipyard to honor nearly 34 years of service; and
Whereas, throughout the career of the USS Oklahoma City, the USS Oklahoma City supported a range of missions, including anti-surface warfare, anti-submarine warfare, targeted strike missions, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance missions: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate recognizes the service of the Los Angeles-class attack submarine the USS Oklahoma City and the crew of the USS Oklahoma City, who served the United States with valor and bravery.
