1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No War with Venezuela Act of 2026
.
2.
Prohibition on deployment of United States military or intelligence personnel in Venezuela
(a)
In general
No Federal funds may be used for the deployment of United States military or intelligence personnel in Venezuela for the following purposes without congressional authorization:
(1)
Conducting military operations against the regime or people of Venezuela.
(2)
Assisting United States law enforcement operations, including efforts to arrest individuals indicted by the United States Government.
(3)
Any military occupation of Venezuela, including activities that would be reasonably viewed as administering its governance.
(4)
Providing security or other services to private extractive industries, including oil companies.
(5)
Any other activities Congress has not explicitly authorized.
(b)
Exceptions
The prohibition under subsection (a) does not apply to the following activities:
(1)
Defense against an attack by Venezuela on the United States personnel or facilities located outside the United States.
(2)
Activities solely for the purposes of collecting, analyzing, or sharing intelligence and counterintelligence information of interest to the United States Government.
(3)
Activities solely for ensuring the security of any United States diplomatic presence in Venezuela.
(4)
Collecting, analyzing, or sharing intelligence and counterintelligence information for the purposes of securing the safe return of United States nationals wrongfully detained in Venezuela.
(5)
Collecting, analyzing, or sharing intelligence and counterintelligence information for the purposes of interdicting and disrupting the production and distribution of illicit narcotics that the United States intelligence community finds to be emanating from Venezuela.
(6)
Activities solely for the purposes of countering the activities of the Governments of the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, Iran, and the Democratic Republic of Korea in Venezuela and neighboring countries.
