1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fair Credit for American Hostages Act of 2025
.
2.
Adverse information about consumers unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad or held hostage abroad
(a)
In general
The Fair Credit Reporting Act (
15 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after section 605C the following:
605D.
Adverse information about consumers unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad or held hostage abroad
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered consumer
The term
covered consumer
means an individual who has been—
(A)
a United States national unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad, as determined under section 302(a) of the Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act (
22 U.S.C. 1741(a)
); or
(B)
a United States national taken hostage abroad, as determined by the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell established by section 304 that Act (
22 U.S.C. 1741b
).
(2)
Detention or hostage documentation
The term
detention or hostage documentation
means documentation that—
(A)
certifies a consumer is a covered consumer under this section;
(B)
identifies the time period during which the covered consumer was unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad or held hostage abroad; and
(C)
is authenticated by—
(i)
the Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs established by section 303 of the Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act (
22 U.S.C. 1741a
); or
(ii)
the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell established by section 304 of that Act (
22 U.S.C. 1741b
).
(b)
Adverse information
If a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) is able to authenticate detention or hostage documentation provided by a covered consumer, the consumer reporting agency may not furnish a consumer report containing any adverse item of information about the covered consumer dating during the time period the covered consumer was unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad or held hostage abroad.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of contents of the Fair Credit Reporting Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 605C the following:
605D. Adverse information about consumers unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad or held hostage abroad.
.
