1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transportation Security Administration Pay Act of 2026
.
2.
Continuing appropriations for Transportation Security Administration personnel
(a)
In general
There are hereby appropriated for fiscal year 2026, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the period beginning on February 14, 2026, during which interim or full-year appropriations for fiscal year 2026 are not in effect, such sums as are necessary to provide standard rates of pay, allowances, pay differentials, benefits, and other payments otherwise payable on a regular basis to employees of the Transportation Security Administration.
(b)
Limitation to individuals affected by lapse in appropriations
Amounts provided under subsection (a) may not be used to provide pay, allowances, pay differentials, benefits, or other payments to an employee of the Transportation Security Administration for any portion of the period described in subsection (a) for which the employee is provided with such pay, allowances, pay differentials, benefits, or other payments using amounts other than amounts provided under subsection (a).
(c)
Charge to future appropriations
Expenditures made pursuant to subsection (a) shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever an Act in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is included is enacted into law.
(d)
Terms and conditions
Pay, allowances, pay differentials, benefits, and other payments provided by the Transportation Security Administration using amounts provided under subsection (a) shall be subject to the requirements, authorities, conditions, and limitations applicable with respect to the provision of pay, allowances, pay differentials, benefits, and other payments by the Transportation Security Administration under the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2025 (
Public Law 119–4
; 139 Stat. 9).
3.
Termination
Appropriations and funds made available and authority granted under section 2 shall be available until whichever of the following first occurs:
(1)
The enactment into law of an appropriation (including a continuing appropriation) for any purpose for which amounts are made available in section 2.
(2)
The enactment into law of the applicable regular or continuing appropriations resolution or other Act without any appropriation for such purpose.
(3)
September 30, 2026.
4.
Retroactive effective date
This Act shall take effect as if enacted on February 13, 2026.
