1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Truth in Tariffs Act
.
2.
Tariff impact transparency
(a)
Requirement
Beginning on the date that is 30 days after the date of enactment of this section, subject to subsection (b), no person may sell to a consumer in the United States a good without displaying to such consumer, in a clear and conspicuous manner, the portion of the price of such good that is attributable to a covered tariff, which shall be identified to the consumer as the
tariff surcharge
.
(b)
Exemption
The requirements of subsection (a) shall not apply to a sale made by a small business concern (as such term is defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
)).
(c)
Enforcement by the Commission
(1)
Unfair or deceptive acts or practices
A violation of this section or a regulation promulgated under this section shall be treated as a violation of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice prescribed under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act
(
15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)
).
(2)
Powers of the Commission
(A)
In general
The Commission shall enforce this section and the regulations promulgated under this section in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the
Federal Trade Commission Act
(
15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.
) were incorporated into and made a part of this Act.
(B)
Privileges and immunities
Any person who violates this section or a regulation promulgated under this section shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act.
(C)
Authority preserved
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to limit the authority of the Commission under any other provision of law.
(D)
Rulemaking
The Commission may promulgate, in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code, such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Trade Commission.
(2)
Covered tariff
The term
covered tariff
means a tariff, including a tariff rate change—
(A)
imposed on an emergency or other discretionary basis by the President; and
(B)
that entered into force on or after January 20, 2025.
