1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Retired Law Enforcement Officers Continuing Service Act
.
2.
Grant program
Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
PP
Civil law enforcement task grants
3061.
Definitions
In this part:
(1)
Civilian law enforcement task
The term
civilian law enforcement task
includes—
(A)
assisting in homicide investigations;
(B)
assisting in carjacking investigations;
(C)
assisting in financial crimes investigations;
(D)
reviewing camera footage;
(E)
crime scene analysis;
(F)
forensics analysis; and
(G)
providing expertise in computers, computer networks, information technology, or the internet.
(2)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means a State, local, Tribal, or territorial law enforcement agency.
3062.
Grants authorized
The Attorney General may award grants to eligible entities for the purpose of hiring retired personnel from law enforcement agencies to—
(1)
train civilian employees of the eligible entity on civilian law enforcement tasks that can be performed on behalf of a law enforcement agency; and
(2)
perform civilian law enforcement tasks on behalf of the eligible entity.
3063.
Accountability provisions
(a)
In general
A grant awarded under this part shall be subject to the accountability requirements of this section.
(b)
Audit requirement
(1)
Definition
In this subsection, the term
unresolved audit finding
means a finding in a final audit report of the Inspector General of the Department of Justice that an audited grantee has used grant funds for an unauthorized expenditure or otherwise unallowable cost that is not closed or resolved within 12 months from the date when the final audit report is issued.
(2)
Audits
Beginning in the first fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of the
Retired Law Enforcement Officers Continuing Service Act
, and in each fiscal year thereafter, the Inspector General of the Department of Justice shall conduct audits of recipients of grants under this part to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds by grantees. The Inspector General of the Department of Justice shall determine the appropriate number of grantees to be audited each year.
(3)
Mandatory exclusion
A recipient of grant funds under this part that is found to have an unresolved audit finding shall not be eligible to receive grant funds under this part during the first 2 fiscal years beginning after the end of the 12-month period described in paragraph (1).
(4)
Priority
In awarding grants under this part, the Attorney General shall give priority to eligible entities that did not have an unresolved audit finding during the 3 fiscal years before submitting an application for a grant under this part.
(c)
Annual certification
Beginning in the fiscal year during which audits commence under subsection (b)(2), the Attorney General shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives an annual certification—
(1)
indicating whether—
(A)
all audits issued by the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Justice under subsection (b) have been completed and reviewed by the appropriate Assistant Attorney General or Director; and
(B)
all mandatory exclusions required under subsection (b)(3) have been issued; and
(2)
that includes a list of any grant recipients excluded under subsection (b)(3) from the previous year.
(d)
Preventing duplicative grants
(1)
In general
Before the Attorney General awards a grant to an eligible entity under this part, the Attorney General shall compare potential grant awards with other grants awarded by the Attorney General to determine if grant awards are or have been awarded for a similar purpose.
(2)
Report
If the Attorney General awards grants to the same applicant for a similar purpose, the Attorney General shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report that includes—
(A)
a list of all such grants awarded, including the total dollar amount of any such grants awarded; and
(B)
the reason the Attorney General awarded multiple grants to the same applicant for a similar purpose.
.
