1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Tariffs on Groceries Act of 2025
.
2.
Limitation on authority to impose duties on articles of food
(a)
In general
On or after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President may not impose any duty or tariff-rate quota on an article of food unless—
(1)
the President transmits to Congress a request to impose the duty or quota; and
(2)
there is enacted into law a joint resolution of approval under subsection (c) with respect to the imposition of the duty or quota.
(b)
Exception
The limitation under subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to an antidumping or countervailing duty imposed under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.
).
(c)
Joint resolutions of approval
(1)
Joint resolution of approval defined
In this subsection, the term
joint resolution of approval
means a joint resolution the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows:
That Congress approves the imposition of the duty or tariff-rate quota with respect to ___, request for which was submitted to Congress on ______.
, with the first blank space being filled with a description of the article and the second blank space being filled with the date the request under subsection (a)(1) was submitted to Congress.
(2)
Introduction
(A)
Joint resolution of approval
A joint resolution of approval with respect to the imposition of a duty or tariff-rate quota may be introduced in either House of Congress by any Member of that House during the 45-day period beginning on the date on which the President submitted a request under subsection (a)(1) with respect to the duty or quota.
(3)
Expedited procedures
The provisions of subsections (b) through (f) of section 152 of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2192
) apply to a joint resolution of approval to the same extent that such subsections apply to joint resolutions under such section 152.
(4)
Rules of the Senate and the House of Representatives
This subsection is enacted by Congress—
(A)
as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that House in the case of a joint resolution of approval, and supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
(B)
with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.
(d)
Article of food defined
In this section, the term
article of food
means—
(1)
food for use;
(2)
products chiefly used as food for animals or as ingredients in such food;
(3)
agricultural commodities (as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (
7 U.S.C. 5602
));
(4)
articles used for packaging and containing articles described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3); and
(5)
seeds, fertilizers, manures, and agro-chemicals.
