1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Uterine Cancer Study Act of 2025
.
2.
Study on relationship between hair straighteners and uterine cancer
(a)
Study
The Secretary, in coordination with the Commissioner of Food and Drugs and the Director of the National Institutes of Health, shall conduct a study on the relationship between hair straighteners and uterine cancer, with a focus on the increased incidence of such cancer among women of color. Such study shall—
(1)
review significant findings and recommendations from other studies regarding the relationship between hair straighteners and uterine cancer;
(2)
consider impacts on women and other individuals at risk of uterine cancer from all racial and ethnic backgrounds;
(3)
disaggregate the results of the study under this section according to whether the hair straighteners contain dyes or coloring, bleach, highlights, or perms; and
(4)
determine whether the Food and Drug Administration should impose additional testing requirements on the manufacturers of hair straightening products to ensure the safety of such products.
(b)
Methodology
Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a description of the methodology that will be used to conduct the study under this section.
(c)
Commencement
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall commence the study under this section.
(d)
Report
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete the study under this section and submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on the results of such study.
(e)
Definition
In this section:
(1)
Hair straightener
The term
hair straightener
means a chemical hair straightener.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
