1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Self-Initiation Trade Enforcement Act of 2026
.
2.
Task force to identify potential countervailable subsidies, dumping, and circumvention
(a)
In general
There is established, in the administering authority, a task force to be responsible for—
(1)
conducting research to—
(A)
identify potential countervailable subsidies and dumping that may be causing material injury or threatening to cause material injury to an industry in the United States; and
(B)
identify potential circumvention of existing antidumping or countervailing duty orders; and
(2)
making recommendations, where appropriate, to the Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade with respect to initiating investigations under sections 702(a) and 732(a) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1671a(a)
and 1673a(a)) and circumvention inquires under section 781 of that Act (
19 U.S.C. 1677j
).
(b)
Duties
In carrying out the responsibilities of the task force under subsection (a), the task force shall—
(1)
monitor trade flows, government and industry data, price fluctuations, domestic industry and market conditions, and other relevant available information to identify potential countervailable subsidies, dumping, or circumvention of existing antidumping or countervailing duty orders;
(2)
conduct background research on—
(A)
production capabilities and pricing practices of foreign companies;
(B)
foreign government subsidies; and
(C)
other relevant information available to the task force;
(3)
consult with, or solicit information from, the United States International Trade Commission, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and such other Federal agencies as the task force considers appropriate; and
(4)
prioritize cases that affect small and medium-sized businesses in the United States.
(c)
Consultations
In carrying out the responsibilities of the task force under subsection (a), the task force shall consult with industries in the United States with respect to potential countervailable subsidies, dumping, and circumvention.
(d)
Nondisclosure of certain information
The administering authority shall not disclose information with regard to the activities of the task force under this section unless and until a determination is made to initiate an investigation under section 702(a) or 732(a) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1671a(a)
and 1673a(a)) or a circumvention inquiry under section 781 of that Act (
19 U.S.C. 1677j
), as the case may be.
(e)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
administering authority
,
countervailable subsidy
,
dumping
,
industry
, and
material injury
have the meanings given those terms in section 771 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1677
).
