1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ruby Mountains Protection Act
.
2.
Withdrawal of certain National Forest System land
(a)
Withdrawal
Subject to valid existing rights, the approximately 309,272 acres of Federal land and interests in the land located in the Ruby Mountains subdistrict of the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest within the area depicted on the Forest Service map entitled
S. 258 Ruby Mountains Protective Act
and dated December 5, 2019, as
National Forest System Lands
are withdrawn from all forms of operation under the mineral leasing laws.
(b)
Application
Any land or interest in land within the boundary of the Ruby Mountains subdistrict of the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest that is acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act shall be withdrawn in accordance with subsection (a).
(c)
Availability of map
The map described in subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service.
3.
Withdrawal of certain National Wildlife Refuge System land
(a)
Withdrawal
(1)
In general
Subject to valid existing rights, the approximately 39,926.10 acres of Federal land and interests in the land located in the Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge and depicted on the United States Fish and Wildlife Service map entitled
S. XXX Ruby Mountains Protection Act
and dated February 23, 2021, as
Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge
are withdrawn from all forms of operation under the mineral leasing laws, subject to paragraph (2).
(2)
Exception
The withdrawal under paragraph (1) shall not apply to noncommercial refuge management activities by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
(b)
Application
Any land or interest in land within the boundary of the Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge that is acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act shall be withdrawn in accordance with subsection (a).
(c)
Availability of map
The map described in subsection (a)(1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
