Whereas Associate Justices of the Supreme Court Neil Gorsuch and Sonia Sotomayor have agreed it
is past time to acknowledge the gravity
of the error of the Insular Cases, and expressed the view
that the Constitution’s application should never turn on . . . the misguided framework of the Insular Cases
;
Whereas territories have been an important part of the United States since the beginning of our Nation, starting with the Northwest Territory in 1787, with Chief Justice John Marshall writing for the Supreme Court in 1820 that
the United States
is
the name given to our great republic, which is composed of States and territories
(Loughborough v. Blake, 18 U.S. (5 Wheat.) 317, 319 (1820));
Whereas today the United States has 5 populated territories, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States, which together have a population of over 3,500,000 residents, equal to the population of the 5 smallest States combined, more than 95 percent of whom are racial or ethnic minorities;
Whereas Puerto Rico and Guam have now been a part of the United States since 1898, American Samoa since 1900, the Virgin Islands of the United States since 1917, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands since 1986;
Whereas, until the Insular Cases were decided in the early 1900s, the Supreme Court long recognized that Congress’ powers over the territories, while broad, were
not absolute and unlimited
, but rather subject
to such restrictions as are expressed in the Constitution
(Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U.S. 15, 44 (1885));
Whereas following the acquisition of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, and other overseas territories in 1898, the Supreme Court’s decisions in the Insular Cases broke from its prior precedent to establish a doctrine of territorial incorporation, creating for the first time a distinction between so-called
incorporated
territories, where the Constitution applies
in full
, and
unincorporated
territories, where the Constitution applies
only in part
(Boumediene v. Bush, 553 U.S. 723, 757 (2008));
Whereas the judgment of the Court in Downes v. Bidwell (182 U.S. 244 (1901)), the most prominent of the Insular Cases, was delivered by Justice Henry Billings Brown, the author of Plessy v. Ferguson’s doctrine of
separate but equal
, who wrote that America’s newly acquired overseas territories were
inhabited by alien races, differing from us in religion, customs, … and modes of thought
, making it impossible to govern
according to Anglo-Saxon principles
;
Whereas Justice Edward White, who in a separate 3-Justice plurality developed the territorial incorporation doctrine in Downes, expressed concerns over the
evils
of admitting
millions of inhabitants
of
unknown islands, peopled with an uncivilized race
, who he believed would be
absolutely unfit
for citizenship;
Whereas 4 Justices dissented in Downes, with Chief Justice Melville Fuller commenting that
[g]reat stress is thrown upon the word
incorporation,
as if possessed of some occult meaning
, and Justice John Marshall Harlan expressing that the
idea of
incorporation
. . . is enveloped in some mystery which I am unable to unravel
;
Whereas Justice Harlan, who penned the lone dissent to Plessy v. Ferguson, also wrote a series of powerful dissents to the Insular Cases, declaring in Downes that
[t]he idea that this country may acquire territories anywhere upon the earth, by conquest or treaty, and hold them as mere colonies or provinces—the people inhabiting them to enjoy only such rights as Congress chooses to accord to them—is wholly inconsistent with the spirit and genius, as well as with the words, of the Constitution
;
Whereas the Insular Cases and the territorial incorporation doctrine have long received significant criticism from the Supreme Court and a broad range of jurists and legal scholars;
Whereas, in 2022, Justice Gorsuch declared that
It is past time to . . . admit what we know to be true: The Insular Cases have no foundation in the Constitution and rest instead on racial stereotypes. They deserve no place in our law.
;
Whereas Justice Gorsuch continued,
[T]he time has come to recognize that the Insular Cases rest on a rotten foundation. And I hope the day comes soon when the Court squarely overrules them. We should follow Justice Harlan and settle this question right.
, and Justice Sotomayor agreed, emphasizing that the Insular Cases
were premised on beliefs both odious and wrong
;
Whereas, nonetheless, just months later the Supreme Court surprised many court watchers by denying review of a case expressly asking
whether the Insular Cases should be overruled
;
Whereas the powerful statements by Justice Gorsuch and Justice Sotomayor followed a 2020 Supreme Court decision that questioned the
continued validity
of the Insular Cases, indicating
that the Insular Cases should not be further extended
;
Whereas Judge Juan Torruella, who served on the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit from 1984 until his death in 2020, labeled the territorial incorporation doctrine a
doctrine of separate and unequal
, writing that
the Insular Cases represent classic Plessy v. Ferguson legal doctrine and thought that should be eradicated from present-day constitutional reasoning
because they run contrary to
the most basic precept for which this nation stands: the equality before the law of all its citizens
;
Whereas Chief Judge Gustavo Gelpí, who has served on the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico since 2006, has called the Insular Cases’ territorial incorporation doctrine
a doctrine of pure judicial invention, with absolutely no basis in the Constitution and one that is contrary to all judicial precedent and territorial practice
;
Whereas legal scholars with a wide range of views have criticized the Insular Cases and the territorial incorporation doctrine, with prominent originalist legal scholar Gary Lawson writing that
there is nothing in the Constitution that even intimates that express constitutional limitations on national power apply differently to different territories
, and leading Constitutional Law Professor Sanford Levinson calling the Insular Cases
central documents in the history of American racism
;
Whereas the territorial incorporation doctrine established by the Insular Cases is still used to perpetuate the second-class treatment of Americans living in the territories, from the denial of citizenship, to the denial of voting rights, to the denial of equality in Federal benefits programs; and
Whereas the time has come to expressly reject the Insular Cases as both contrary to the Constitution’s text and history and as incompatible with our Nation’s core values: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes that America’s constitutional and democratic principles apply throughout the United States, including both States and territories;
(2)
acknowledges that the Insular Cases are contrary to the text and history of the Constitution;
(3)
acknowledges that the Insular Cases are relics of the racial views of an earlier era that have no place in our Nation today; and
(4)
rejects the Insular Cases and their application to all present and future cases and controversies involving the application of the Constitution in United States territories.
