1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Volunteer Emergency Services Recruitment and Retention Act of 2019
.
2.
Elective treatment of length of service award plans as eligible deferred compensation plans
(a)
In general
Section 457(e)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(19)
Additional special rules applicable to length of service award plans
(A)
In general
The term
eligible deferred compensation plan
includes, at the election of its sponsor, any length of service award plan described in paragraph (11)(A)(ii) which meets the requirements of paragraph (11)(B). Any such election, once made, shall be irrevocable.
(B)
Special rules
In the case of a length of service award plan whose sponsor has elected to have such plan treated as an eligible deferred compensation plan—
(i)
In general
Such sponsor shall be treated as an eligible employer described in subsection (e)(1)(A), and, except as provided in clauses (ii) and (iii), such plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with the requirements of this section.
(ii)
Maximum deferral amount
Subsection (b)(2) shall be applied by substituting
the limitation on accruals in effect under paragraph (11)(B)
for
the lesser of—
and all that follows through
compensation,
in subparagraph (B) thereof.
(iii)
Distribution requirements
Subsection (d)(1)(A) shall be applied by deeming a severance from employment to have occurred for purposes of clause (ii) thereof on the payment date under the terms of the plan.
.
(b)
Exemption from Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
For purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, a length of service award plan described in
section 457(e)(11)(A)(ii)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 whose sponsor has elected under section 457(e)(19) of such Code to have such plan treated as an eligible deferred compensation plan shall not be treated as an employee pension benefit plan or a pension plan under section 3(2) of such Act (
29 U.S.C. 1002(2)
).
(c)
Effective date
The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2019.
