1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Great Lakes Agricultural Stewardship Act
.
2.
Great Lakes basin initiative for agricultural nonpoint source pollution prevention
(a)
In general
Subchapter A of chapter 4 of subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (
16 U.S.C. 3839aa
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 1240H the following new section:
1240H–1.
Great Lakes basin initiative for agricultural nonpoint source pollution prevention
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary, in consultation with the Great Lakes States, shall establish a Great Lakes basin initiative for agricultural nonpoint source pollution prevention in accordance with this section.
(b)
Initiative elements
(1)
Grants to States
In implementing the initiative, the Secretary shall provide grants to Great Lakes States to fund the following:
(A)
Education and outreach, for producers in the Great Lakes basin, regarding—
(i)
nonpoint pollution of ground and surface water from agricultural activities;
(ii)
State verification programs; and
(iii)
the initiative.
(B)
Technical assistance, including training, to producers in the Great Lakes basin for the implementation of activities that reduce or prevent nonpoint pollution of ground and surface water from agricultural activities.
(C)
Development and implementation of voluntary State verification programs, with a funding priority for voluntary State verification programs that incorporate Department of Agriculture conservation planning and practice standards.
(2)
Funding priority for certain producers
In implementing the initiative, the Secretary shall establish a funding priority within the Great Lakes basin for payments to producers under this chapter for producers that participate in the initiative with the purpose of achieving verification through a State verification program.
(c)
Use of existing data
In establishing the initiative, the Secretary shall, where available, use existing plans, models, and assessments.
(d)
Collaboration
In carrying out activities under the initiative, a State may collaborate with entities that have agricultural or environmental expertise, including academic or nonprofit organizations.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Great Lakes State
The term
Great Lakes State
means any one of the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, or Wisconsin.
(2)
Initiative
The term
initiative
means the Great Lakes basin initiative for agricultural nonpoint source pollution prevention established under subsection (a).
(3)
Nonpoint source pollution
The term
nonpoint source pollution
is used within the meaning of that term under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.).
(4)
State verification program
The term
State verification program
means a program established by a Great Lakes State to verify producer implementation of practices approved by the State to reduce nonpoint pollution of ground and surface water from agricultural activities, which may include verification by a third party approved by the State or the Secretary.
(f)
Funding
Of the funds made available to carry out this subchapter, the Secretary shall carry out this section using—
(1)
$5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020;
(2)
$8,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;
(3)
$10,000,000 for fiscal year 2022; and
(4)
$7,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 1240C of the Food Security Act of 1985 (
16 U.S.C. 3839aa–3
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Special rule for Great Lakes basin
In evaluating applications of producers in the Great Lakes basin under this subchapter, the Secretary shall prioritize applications in accordance with section 1240H–1(b)(2).
.
