1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic Services for Constituents Act of 2019
or the
CASES Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
congressional offices provide crucial services to constituents by acting as a liaison between the constituents and the respective agencies;
(2)
this includes assisting constituents by making inquiries and working toward resolutions on behalf of the constituent with the respective agencies; and
(3)
this process should be simplified through the creation of electronic forms that may be submitted under section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the Privacy Act), thus modernizing the process for constituents and improving access and efficiency of Government services and agencies in order to expedite the resolution of the problem for which constituents sought help.
3.
OMB guidance on electronic consent and access forms
(a)
Guidance
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall issue guidance that does the following:
(1)
Requires each agency to accept electronic identity proofing and authentication processes for the purposes of allowing an individual to provide prior written consent for the disclosure of the individual’s records under section 552a(b) of title 5, United States Code, or for individual access to records under section 552a(d) of such title.
(2)
Creates a template for electronic consent and access forms and requires each agency to post the template on the agency website and to accept the forms from any individual properly identity proofed and authenticated in accordance with paragraph (1) for the purpose of authorizing disclosure of the individual’s records under section 552a(b) of title 5, United States Code, or for individual access to records under section 552a(d) of such title.
(3)
Requires each agency to accept the electronic consent and access forms described in paragraph (2) from any individual properly identity proofed and authenticated in accordance with paragraph (1) for the purpose of authorizing disclosure of the individual’s records to another entity, including a congressional office, in accordance with section 552a(b) of title 5, United States Code, or for individual access to records under section 552a(d).
(b)
Agency compliance
Each agency shall comply with the guidance issued pursuant to subsection (a) not later than 1 year after the date on which such guidance is issued.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency; individual; record
The terms
agency
,
individual
, and
record
have the meanings given those terms in section 552a(a) of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
4.
No additional funds authorized
No additional funds are authorized to carry out the requirements of this Act. Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized.
