1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting United States Wireless Leadership Act of 2019
.
2.
Representation and leadership of United States in international communications standards-setting bodies
(a)
In general
In order to enhance the representation of the United States and promote United States leadership in international standards-setting bodies that set standards for 5G networks and for future generations of wireless communications networks, the Assistant Secretary shall, in consultation with the National Institute for Standards and Technology, coordinate executive branch efforts to—
(1)
encourage participation by trusted companies and a wide variety of relevant stakeholders (to the extent such standards-setting bodies allow such stakeholders to participate) in such international standards-setting bodies; and
(2)
offer technical expertise to trusted companies and a wide variety of relevant stakeholders (to the extent such standards-setting bodies allow such stakeholders to participate) to facilitate such participation.
(b)
International standards-Setting bodies
The international standards-setting bodies referred to in subsection (a) include—
(1)
the International Telecommunication Union;
(2)
the International Organization for Standardization;
(3)
the voluntary standards-setting bodies that develop protocols for wireless devices and other equipment, such as the 3GPP and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers; and
(4)
any standards-setting body accredited by the American National Standards Institute or Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions.
(c)
Briefing
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall brief the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate on a strategy to carry out subsection (a).
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
3GPP
The term
3GPP
means the 3rd Generation Partnership Project.
(2)
5G network
The term
5G network
means a fifth-generation mobile network as described by 3GPP Release 15 or higher.
(3)
Assistant Secretary
The term
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information.
(4)
Cloud computing
The term
cloud computing
has the meaning given the term in Special Publication 800–145 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, entitled
The NIST Definition of Cloud Computing
, published in September 2011, or any successor publication.
(5)
Communications network
The term
communications network
means any of the following:
(A)
A system enabling the transmission, between or among points specified by the user, of information of the user’s choosing.
(B)
Cloud computing resources.
(C)
A network or system used to access cloud computing resources.
(6)
Trusted company
The term
trusted company
means a company that is determined by the Assistant Secretary not to pose a threat to the national security of the United States. In making such a determination, the Assistant Secretary shall consult the heads of the intelligence community (as defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
)) and consider whether such company is listed on the entity list maintained by the Bureau of Industry and Security of the Department of Commerce and set forth in Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations (subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations).
