2.
Funds appropriated by this Act may be used by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to appoint, without regard to the provisions of sections 3309 through 3319 of title 5 of the United States Code, candidates needed for positions to perform critical work relating to coronavirus for which—
(1)
public notice has been given; and
(2)
the Secretary of Health and Human Services has determined that such a public health threat exists.
3.
Funds made available by this Act may be used to enter into contracts with individuals for the provision of personal services (as described in section 104 of part 37 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations (48 CFR 37.104)) to support the prevention of, preparation for, or response to coronavirus, domestically and internationally, subject to prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:
Provided
, That such individuals may not be deemed employees of the United States for the purpose of any law administered by the Office of Personnel Management:
Provided further
, That the authority made available pursuant to this section shall expire on September 30, 2024.
4.
(a)
If services performed by an employee during 2020 are determined by the head of the agency to be primarily related to preparation, prevention, or response to coronavirus, any premium pay for such services shall be disregarded in calculating the aggregate of such employee’s basic pay and premium pay for purposes of a limitation under section 5547(a) of title 5, United States Code, or under any other provision of law, whether such employee’s pay is paid on a biweekly or calendar year basis.
(b)
Any overtime pay for such services shall be disregarded in calculating any annual limit on the amount of overtime pay payable in a calendar or fiscal year.
(c)
With regard to such services, any pay that is disregarded under either subsection (a) or (b) shall be disregarded in calculating such employee’s aggregate pay for purposes of the limitation in section 5307 of such title 5.
(d)
(1)
Pay that is disregarded under subsection (a) or (b) shall not cause the aggregate of the employee’s basic pay and premium pay for the applicable calendar year to exceed the rate of basic pay payable for a position at level II of the Executive Schedule under section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, as in effect at the end of such calendar year.
(2)
For purposes of applying this subsection to an employee who would otherwise be subject to the premium pay limits established under section 5547 of title 5, United States Code,
premium pay
means the premium pay paid under the provisions of law cited in section 5547(a).
(3)
For purposes of applying this subsection to an employee under a premium pay limit established under an authority other than section 5547 of title 5, United States Code, the agency responsible for administering such limit shall determine what payments are considered premium pay.
(e)
This section shall take effect as if enacted on February 2, 2020.
(f)
If application of this section results in the payment of additional premium pay to a covered employee of a type that is normally creditable as basic pay for retirement or any other purpose, that additional pay shall not—
(1)
be considered to be basic pay of the covered employee for any purpose; or
(2)
be used in computing a lump-sum payment to the covered employee for accumulated and accrued annual leave under section 5551 or section 5552 of title 5, United States Code.
5.
The paragraph codified at
42 U.S.C. 231
shall be applied in this and all other fiscal years as though the phrase
central services
referred to central services for any Federal agency, and this section shall be effective as if enacted on the date of the enactment of such paragraph.
6.
Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading
Department of Health and Human Services
, except for the amounts specified in the third and fourth paragraphs under the heading
Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund
, may be transferred to, and merged with, other appropriation accounts under the headings
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
,
Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund
,
Administration for Children and Families
,
Administration for Community Living
, and
National Institutes of Health
to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus following consultation with the Office of Management and Budget:
Provided
, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate shall be notified 10 days in advance of any such transfer:
Provided further
, That, upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from an appropriation by this Act are not necessary, such amounts may be transferred back to that appropriation:
Provided further
, That none of the funds made available by this Act may be transferred pursuant to the authority in section 205 of division A of
Public Law 116–94
or section 241(a) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 238j(a)
).
7.
Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading
Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund
, up to $6,000,000 shall be transferred to, and merged with, funds made available under the heading
Office of the Secretary, Office of Inspector General
, and shall remain available until expended, for oversight of activities supported with funds appropriated to the Department of Health and Human Services to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally:
Provided
, That the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate prior to obligating such funds:
Provided further
, That the transfer authority provided by this section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law.
8.
Funds made available in
Public Law 113–235
to the accounts of the National Institutes of Health that were available for obligation through fiscal year 2015 shall be made available through fiscal year 2021 for the liquidation of valid obligations incurred in fiscal year 2015:
Provided
, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (
2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)
) is amended.
9.
Section 675B(b)(3) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (
42 U.S.C. 9906(b)(3)
) shall not apply with respect to funds appropriated by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (
Public Law 116–136
) to carry out the Community Services Block Grant Act (
42 U.S.C. 9901
et seq.):
Provided
, That the amounts repurposed in this section that were previously are designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (
2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)
).
10.
(a)
Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded or transferred, if applicable) only if the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such designations to the Congress.
(b)
Any amount appropriated by this Act, designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and subsequently so designated by the President, and transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this Act shall retain such designation.
