1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Traffic Camera Freedom Act of 2019
.
2.
Prohibition on the use of automated traffic enforcement systems
(a)
In general
Chapter 1
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
171.
Prohibition on the use of automated traffic enforcement systems
(a)
Laws prohibiting automated traffic enforcement systems
A State meets the requirements of this subsection if the State has enacted and is enforcing a law that prohibits the use of automated traffic enforcement systems.
(b)
Withholding of funds for noncompliance
On October 1 of the first year after enactment, and on October 1 of each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary shall withhold 50 percent of the amount required to be apportioned to a State under each of paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 104(b) if the State does not meet the requirements of subsection (a).
(c)
Period of availability of withheld funds; effect of compliance and noncompliance
(1)
Period of availability of withheld funds
Any funds withheld under subsection (b) from apportionment to a State shall remain available for apportionment to the State until the end of the third fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the funds are authorized to be appropriated.
(2)
Apportionment of withheld funds after compliance
If, before the last day of the period for which funds withheld under subsection (b) from apportionment are to remain available for apportionment to a State under paragraph (1), the State meets the requirements of subsection (a), the Secretary shall, on the first day on which the State meets the requirements of subsection (a), apportion to the State the funds withheld under subsection (b) that remain available for apportionment to the State.
(3)
Period of availability of subsequently apportioned funds
Any funds apportioned pursuant to paragraph (2)—
(A)
shall remain available for expenditure until the end of the third fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the funds are so apportioned; and
(B)
if not apportioned at the end of that period, shall lapse.
(4)
Effect of noncompliance
If, at the end of the period for which funds withheld under subsection (b) from apportionment are available for apportionment to a State under paragraph (1), the State does not meet the requirements of subsection (a), the funds shall lapse.
(d)
Definition of automated traffic enforcement system
In this section, the term
automated traffic enforcement system
has the meaning given such term in section 402(c)(4)(B) of title 23, United States Code.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The analysis for
chapter 1
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
171. Prohibition on the use of automated traffic enforcement systems.
.
