1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act of 2019
.
2.
Exercise on terrorist and foreign fighter travel
(a)
In general
In addition to, or as part of exercise programs currently carried out by the Department of Homeland Security, to enhance domestic preparedness for and collective response to terrorism, promote the dissemination of homeland security information, and test the security posture of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland Security, through appropriate offices and components of the Department and in coordination with the heads of appropriate Federal departments and agencies, shall develop and conduct an exercise related to the detection and prevention of terrorist and foreign fighter travel.
(b)
Exercise requirements
The exercise required under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
a scenario involving—
(A)
persons traveling from the United States to join or provide material support or resources to a terrorist organization abroad; and
(B)
terrorist infiltration into the United States, including by United States citizens and foreign nationals;
(2)
coordination with appropriate Federal departments and agencies, foreign governments, and State, local, Tribal, and territorial agencies, including law enforcement agencies and representatives from the National Network of Fusion Centers; and
(3)
coordination with appropriate private sector and community stakeholders.
(c)
Report
Not later than 60 days after the completion of the exercise required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, consistent with the protection of classified information, submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate an after-action report presenting the initial findings of such exercise, plans for quickly incorporating lessons learned into future operations of the Department of Homeland Security, and any proposed legislative changes informed by such exercise.
(d)
Definition
In this section, the term
material support or resources
has the meaning given such term in section 2339A of title 18, United States Code.
3.
Emerging threats in the national exercise program
Clause (i) of section 648(b)(2)(A) of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006 (
6 U.S.C. 748(b)(2)
) is amended by inserting
and emerging
after
credible
.
