1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Academic Integrity Act of 2019
.
2.
Disclosure of foreign gifts
(a)
Value of gifts
Section 117(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1011f(a)
) is amended by striking
$250,000
and inserting
$50,000
.
(b)
Contents of report
Section 117(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1011f(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
and, when available, the specific department, agency, office, or division of the foreign government responsible for the gift or contract
before the period at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (3), by inserting
and, when available, the specific department, agency, office, or division of the foreign government responsible for the gift or contract
before the period at the end; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(4)
If available, the purpose or intention of a foreign gift or contract. If no purpose or intention is identified with respect to the gift or contract, the institution shall report the intended use of such gift or contract and the account or the department of such institution that will receive such gift or contract.
.
(c)
Additional disclosures for restricted and conditional gifts
Section 117(c)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1011f(c)(2)
) is amended by inserting
and, when available, the specific department, agency, office, or division of the foreign government responsible for the gift or contract
before the period at the end.
(d)
Applicability
This section and the amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
3.
GAO study and report
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General of the United States shall carry out a study on—
(1)
the extent to which institutions of higher education comply with—
(A)
the requirements of section 117 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1011f
); and
(B)
the regulations issued pursuant to such section;
(2)
in the case of institutions of higher education that fail to comply with such requirements, the reasons for the failure of such institutions of higher education to comply;
(3)
the extent to which institutions of higher education attempt to correct a failure to comply with such requirements; and
(4)
the Federal efforts to increase compliance with such requirements.
(b)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report that includes the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).
