1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
CBP Workload Staffing Model Act
.
2.
Establishment of workload staffing models for U.S. Border Patrol and Air and Marine Operations of CBP
(a)
In general
The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall in coordination with the Under Secretary for Management, Chief Human Capital Officer, and Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Homeland Security, develop and implement, by not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, a workload staffing model for each of the U.S. Border Patrol and Air and Marine Operations.
(b)
Responsibilities of the Commissioner of CBP
Subsection (c) of section 411 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 211
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (18) and (19) as paragraphs (20) and (21), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (17) the following new paragraphs:
(18)
implement a staffing model that includes consideration for essential frontline operator activities and functions, variations in operating environments, present and planned infrastructure, present and planned technology, and required operations support levels for the U.S. Border Patrol, Air and Marine Operations, and the Office of Field Operations, to manage and assign personnel of such entities to ensure field and support posts possess adequate resources to carry out duties specified in this section;
(19)
develop standard operating procedures for a workforce tracking system within the U.S. Border Patrol, Air and Marine Operations, and the Office of Field Operations, train the workforce of each of such entities on the use, capabilities, and purpose of such system, and implement internal controls to ensure timely and accurate scheduling and reporting of actual completed work hours and activities;
.
(c)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act with respect to subsection (a) and paragraphs (18) and (19) of section 411(c) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as amended by subsection (b)), and annually thereafter with respect to such paragraphs (18) and (19), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a status update on the implementation of this Act and such paragraphs (18) and (19), and status updates on such paragraphs (18) and (19), as well as all relevant workload staffing models.
