1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Name the Enemy Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The leadership of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China has gone unchallenged in its perverse pursuits of human rights abuses across decades, includingГўВҖВ”
(A)
murdering untold numbers of pro-Democracy protestors at Tiananmen Square in 1988;
(B)
harvesting the organs of up to thousands of Chinese citizens every year, especially targeting Falun Gong practitioners;
(C)
imprisoning between 800,000 and 2,000,000 Uighers and ethnic Kazaks in
re-education
camps since April 2017;
(D)
condoning and facilitating the practice of forced abortions, sterilization procedures, and other forms of sexual abuse on women imprisoned in these camps;
(E)
arresting and silencing whistleblowers following the outbreak of the SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2 virus; and
(F)
using the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Armed Forces Maritime Militia (PAFMM) and other paramilitary forces to constantly infringe upon the sovereignty of surrounding countries, including in April 2020, when a Chinese maritime surveillance vessel sank a Vietnamese fishing boat off the Paracel Islands.
(2)
Such blatant disregard for basic human decency run contrary to the well-functioning of an open and civilized society.
(3)
Ultimate responsibility for these outrages must lie with the head of state of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China.
(4)
The title of
President
has often been utilized to describe the office of the head of state of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China, in both the United States Government and private publications.
(5)
Addressing the head of state of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China as a
President
grants the incorrect assumption that the people of the state, via democratic means, have readily legitimized the leader who rules them.
(6)
The head of state of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China derives all power and authority from the Chinese Communist Party, and is accountable only to them.
(7)
The House of Representatives has based the proposed action described in this resolution on the recommendations provided by the 2019 report of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission.
3.
United States Policy
It is the policy of the United States toГўВҖВ”
(1)
condemn in the strongest possible terms the horrific human rights abuses being perpetuated and enabled by the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party;
(2)
urge all countries to do the same;
(3)
recognize the deep friendship between the United States and the citizens of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of ChinaГўВҖВ”the first victims of their governmentГўВҖВҷs cruelty; and
(4)
honor the memory of all those who have died as a result of the callous rule of the Chinese Communist Party.
4.
Prohibition on using Federal funds to refer to the head of state of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China as
President
on United States Government documents and communications
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Federal Government may not obligate or expend any funds for the creation and dissemination of United States Government documents and communications that refer to the head of state of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China as anything other than
General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party
, or alternatively, as
General Secretary
.
