1.
Notice concerning frivolous asylum applications
(a)
In general
Section 208(d)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1158(d)(4)
) is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
the Secretary of Homeland Security or
before
the Attorney General
;
(2)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
and of the consequences, under paragraph (6), of knowingly filing a frivolous application for asylum; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(3)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and inserting
; and
; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
ensure that a written warning appears on the asylum application advising the alien of the consequences of filing a frivolous application and serving as notice to the alien of the consequence of filing a frivolous application.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 208(d)(6) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1158(d)(6)
) is amended by striking
If the
and all that follows and inserting:
(A)
If the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General determines that an alien has knowingly made a frivolous application for asylum and the alien has received the notice under paragraph (4)(C), the alien shall be permanently ineligible for any benefits under this chapter, effective as the date of the final determination of such an application.
(B)
An application is frivolous if the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General determines, consistent with subparagraph (C), that—
(i)
it is so insufficient in substance that it is clear that the applicant knowingly filed the application solely or in part to delay removal from the United States, to seek employment authorization as an applicant for asylum pursuant to regulations issued pursuant to paragraph (2), or to seek issuance of a Notice to Appear in order to pursue Cancellation of Removal under section 240A(b); or
(ii)
any of the material elements are knowingly fabricated.
(C)
In determining that an application is frivolous, the Secretary or the Attorney General must be satisfied that the applicant, during the course of the proceedings, has had sufficient opportunity to clarify any discrepancies or implausible aspects of the claim.
(D)
For purposes of this section, a finding that an alien filed a frivolous asylum application shall not preclude the alien from seeking withholding of removal under section 241(b)(3) or protection pursuant to the Convention Against Torture.
.
2.
Anti-fraud investigative work product
(a)
Asylum credibility determinations
Section 208(b)(1)(B)(iii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1158(b)(1)(B)(iii)
) is amended by inserting after
all relevant factors
the following:
, including statements made to, and investigative reports prepared by, immigration authorities and other government officials
.
(b)
Relief for removal credibility determinations
Section 240(c)(4)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1229a(c)(4)(C)
) is amended by inserting after
all relevant factors
the following:
, including statements made to, and investigative reports prepared by, immigration authorities and other government officials
.
