1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Iranian Drones Act of 2021
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
A United Nations General Assembly report entitled,
Continuing operation of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms and its further development
(document A/68/140) and dated July 15, 2013, states, in paragraph 45, the following:
The Group noted the discussion of the 2006 Group that category IV already covered armed unmanned aerial vehicles and of the 2009 Group on a proposal to include a new category for such vehicles. The Group reviewed proposals for providing greater clarity to category IV. . . .
.
(2)
Section 107 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (
22 U.S.C. 9406
) requires that the President impose sanctions on any person that the President determines
knowingly engages in any activity that materially contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer directly or indirectly to or from Iran, or for the use in or benefit of Iran, of any battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, as defined for the purpose of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, or related materiel, including spare parts
.
(3)
In 2019, the United Nations formally changed the title of category IV of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms to
Combat aircraft and unmanned combat aerial vehicles (UCAV)
.
3.
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States to prevent Iran and terrorist and militia groups aligned with Iran from acquiring unmanned aerial vehicles, including commercially available component parts that can be used in attacks against United States persons and allies and partners of the United States.
4.
Amendment to Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act relating to sanctions with respect to Iran
(a)
In general
Section 107 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (
22 U.S.C. 9406
) is amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by striking
Enforcement of arms embargos
and inserting
Sanctions with respect to major conventional arms
; and
(2)
in subsection (a)(1), by inserting
or unmanned combat aerial vehicles
after
combat aircraft
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act is amended by striking the item relating to section 107 and inserting the following:
Sec. 107. Sanctions with respect to major conventional arms.
.
(c)
Effective date; applicability
The amendments made by this section shall—
(1)
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2)
apply with respect to any person that knowingly engages, before, on, or after such date of enactment, in any activity that materially contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer of an unmanned combat aerial vehicle (as defined by the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms)—
(A)
directly or indirectly to or from Iran; or
(B)
for the use in or benefit of Iran.
