1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Leveraging our National Laboratories to Develop Tomorrow’s Technology Leaders Act of 2022
.
2.
Lab-embedded entrepreneurship program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered program
The term
covered program
means a program described in subsection (c).
(2)
Eligible entity
(A)
In general
The term
eligible entity
means—
(i)
a National Laboratory; and
(ii)
an entity described in subparagraph (B) in partnership with a National Laboratory.
(B)
Entity described
An entity referred to in subparagraph (A)(ii) is—
(i)
a nonprofit organization;
(ii)
an institution of higher education; and
(iii)
any other entity that the Secretary determines appropriate.
(3)
Entrepreneurial fellow
The term
entrepreneurial fellow
means an individual participating in a covered program.
(4)
National laboratory
The term
National Laboratory
has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 15801
).
(5)
Program
The term
program
means the Lab-Embedded Entrepreneurship Program authorized under subsection (b).
(6)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
(b)
Program
The Secretary shall establish a program, to be known as the
Lab-Embedded Entrepreneurship Program
, under which the Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities for the purpose of establishing or maintaining a covered program.
(c)
Covered programs
An eligible entity receiving a grant under the program shall use the grant funds to establish or maintain a lab-embedded entrepreneurship program to provide entrepreneurial fellows with access to National Laboratory research facilities, expertise, and mentorship—
(1)
to perform research and development; and
(2)
to gain expertise that may be required or beneficial for the commercial application of research ideas.
(d)
Entrepreneurial fellows
(1)
In general
In participating in a covered program, an entrepreneurial fellow shall be provided by an eligible entity with—
(A)
opportunities for entrepreneurial training, professional development, and exposure to leaders from academia, industry, government, and finance, who may serve as advisors to or partners of an entrepreneurial fellow;
(B)
financial and technical support for research, development, and commercial application activities;
(C)
fellowship awards to cover costs of living, health insurance, and travel stipends for the duration of the fellowship;
(D)
market and customer discovery opportunities;
(E)
engagement with external stakeholders; and
(F)
any other resources determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(2)
Priority
In carrying out a covered program, an eligible entity shall give priority to supporting entrepreneurial fellows with respect to professional development and development of a relevant technology.
(3)
Intellectual property
In participating in a covered program, an entrepreneurial fellow shall retain all rights relating to intellectual property developed by the entrepreneurial fellow through activities carried out under the covered program.
(e)
Partnerships
An eligible entity described in subparagraph (A)(i) of subsection (a)(2) that receives a grant under the program may carry out a covered program in partnership with 1 or more entities described in subparagraph (B) of that subsection.
(f)
Metrics
The Secretary shall develop metrics to assess the effectiveness of each covered program in achieving the purposes of the program.
(g)
Coordination; interagency collaboration
The Secretary shall—
(1)
oversee the planning and coordination of grants awarded under the program; and
(2)
collaborate with other Federal agencies, including the Department of Defense, regarding opportunities for Federal agencies to partner with covered programs.
(h)
Best practices
The Secretary shall identify and disseminate to eligible entities best practices for achieving the purposes of the program.
(i)
Assessments; reports
Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall—
(1)
conduct an assessment of each covered program based on the metrics developed under subsection (f); and
(2)
submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a report summarizing the findings of those assessments.
(j)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.
