1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disaster Management Costs Modernization Act
.
2.
Use of excess funds for management costs
(a)
In general
Section 324 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5165b
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
(c)
Use of excess funds for management costs
(1)
Definition
In this subsection, the term
excess funds for management costs
means the difference between—
(A)
the amount of the applicable specific management costs authorized under subsection (b); and
(B)
as of the date on which the incident is closed, the amount of funding for management costs activities expended by the grantee or subgrantee receiving the financial assistance for costs described in subparagraph (A).
(2)
Availability of excess funds for management costs
The President may make available to a grantee or subgrantee receiving financial assistance under section 403, 404, 406, 407, or 502 any excess funds for management costs.
(3)
Use of funds
Excess funds for management costs made available to a grantee or subgrantee under paragraph (2) may be used for activities associated with building capacity to respond to or recover from the types of incidents for which assistance may be made available under section 403, 404, 406, 407, or 502 and to provide such assistance, including for providing training and other activities associated with any major disaster or emergency declaration, or to otherwise prepare for such an incident.
(4)
Availability
Excess funds for management costs made available to a grantee or subgrantee under paragraph (2) shall remain available to the grantee or subgrantee until the date that is 5 years after the date on which the excess funds for management costs are made available under paragraph (2).
.
(b)
Applicability
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to any incident for which a major disaster or emergency is declared under section 401 or 501, respectively, of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170
, 5191) that is open on, or occurs on or after, the date of enactment of this Act.
