1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Comprehensive Resources for Entrepreneurs in the Arts to Transform the Economy Act of 2022
or the
CREATE Act of 2022
.
2.
Microloan program expansion
Section 7(m)(6) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(m)(6)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(F)
Loan criteria for artists and arts entrepreneurs
The Administration, in consultation with eligible intermediaries, shall develop loan criteria to ensure that small business concerns owned and controlled by artists and small business concerns that support the creative economy receive loan proceeds under this subsection.
.
3.
SBA business loans for the creative economy
Section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(38)
Creative economy
In providing assistance under this subsection, the Administration shall develop procedures to evaluate the business proposals and business plans of non-employer businesses and small business concerns that focus on economic development, job creation, and community growth with respect to the creative economy.
.
4.
SBA technical assistance programs
Section 21 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 648
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(o)
Technical assistance programs for artists and arts entrepreneurs
The Administration, in consultation with relevant stakeholders, shall develop technical assistance programs to be carried out by small business development centers under this subsection that target the specific needs of artists and arts entrepreneurs.
.
5.
Arts-focused economic development
Title II of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3141 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
219.
Arts-focused economic development
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Business incubation program
The term
business incubation program
means a program that—
(A)
accelerates the successful development of entrepreneurial businesses through business support resources and services, developed or orchestrated by incubator management;
(B)
is designed to produce successful businesses; and
(C)
provides management guidance, technical assistance, and consulting designed for young, growing businesses, including by providing—
(i)
rental space and flexible leases;
(ii)
shared basic business services and equipment;
(iii)
technology support services; and
(iv)
assistance in obtaining financing necessary for growth of the business.
(2)
Incubator
The term
incubator
means a multitenant facility with on-site management that directs a business incubation program.
(b)
Arts-Focused economic development
In providing grants and assistance under this Act (including through the local technical assistance, partnership planning, and comprehensive economic development strategies programs of the Economic Development Administration), the Secretary shall provide to State, regional, and local arts agencies, artists, and creative workers support through traditional economic development tools, including—
(1)
incubators; and
(2)
economic development planning and technical assistance, including assistance for State, regional, and local arts agencies in work related to comprehensive economic development strategies.
.
6.
Demonstration program to promote use of creative industries and occupations in certain economic planning
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall establish a demonstration program to assess the feasibility and advisability of providing support to local arts agencies and nonprofits through planning grants under section 203 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3143
) and local technical assistance grants under section 207 of that Act (
42 U.S.C. 3147
) to promote the use of creative industries and occupations in the economic planning of local governments, including in comprehensive economic development strategies.
