1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Electric Vehicle Grid Readiness, Improvement, and Development Act
or the
EV GRID Act
.
2.
Study and plan relating to the ability of the electric system to meet the electricity demand of new electric vehicle charging infrastructure
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
The term
electric vehicle charging infrastructure
means the charging infrastructure necessary to support light-duty, medium-duty, and heavy-duty on-road electric vehicles, including charging infrastructure that is located at a workplace, recreational destination, vehicle corridor, home, or depot.
(2)
President’s greenhouse gas reduction target
The term
President’s greenhouse gas reduction target
means the target, established by the President, of reducing greenhouse gas pollution by 50 to 52 percent from 2005 levels by 2030.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
(4)
Study
The term
Study
means the study completed and published under subsection (b)(1).
(b)
Study
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete, and publish on the website of the Department of Energy, a study that assesses the ability of the electric system to meet the electricity demand of electric vehicle charging infrastructure that is installed on or after that date of enactment.
(2)
Requirements
The Study shall—
(A)
include an estimate of—
(i)
the growth in the use of electric vehicles that is necessary to meet the President’s greenhouse gas reduction target;
(ii)
the additional electric generation, transmission, and distribution capacity that will need to be added to the electric system to meet the electricity demand of electric vehicle charging infrastructure that is installed on or after the date of enactment of this Act; and
(iii)
how the electricity demand described in clause (ii) will vary by—
(I)
geography;
(II)
population density;
(III)
vehicle-grid interaction scenario; and
(IV)
time of day at which the electric vehicle charging infrastructure is used; and
(B)
identify geographic areas in which greater investment in the electric system is necessary to meet the electricity demand of electric vehicle charging infrastructure installed on or after the date of enactment of this Act in those geographic areas.
(c)
Plan and recommendations
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Study is published under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary, in coordination with the Building a Better Grid Initiative of the Office of Electricity and the Vehicle Technologies Office of the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, shall—
(1)
develop a plan, based on the Study, for how the Department of Energy may assist the electric system with meeting the increase in the demand for electricity estimated in the Study; and
(2)
provide to Congress recommendations for legislation that would support the Department of Energy in assisting the electric system as described in paragraph (1).
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
