1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medical Supplies for Pandemics Act of 2021
.
2.
Supply chain flexibility manufacturing pilot
(a)
In general
Section 319F–2(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(a)(3)) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (I), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (J), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(K)
enhance domestic medical supply chain elasticity and establish and maintain domestic reserves of critical medical supplies (including personal protective equipment, ancillary medical supplies, testing supplies, and other applicable supplies required for the administration of drugs, vaccines and other biological products, medical devices, and diagnostic tests) by—
(i)
creating incentives for the domestic manufacturing of medical supplies—
(I)
to increase emergency stock of critical medical supplies; and
(II)
to geographically diversify production of such supplies;
(ii)
purchasing, leasing, or entering into joint industrial-based expansion ventures with respect to, facilities and equipment for the production of medical supplies; and
(iii)
working with distributors of medical supplies to manage the domestic reserves established under this subparagraph by refreshing and replenishing stock of critical medical supplies.
.
(b)
Reporting; sunset
Section 319F–2(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(6)
Reporting
Not later than September 30, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report on the details of each purchase, lease, or joint industrial-based expansion venture entered into under paragraph (3)(K), including the amount expended by the Secretary on each such purchase, lease, or joint venture.
(7)
Sunset
The authority to make purchases, leases, or joint ventures pursuant to paragraph (3)(K) shall cease to be effective on September 30, 2024.
.
(c)
Funding
Section 319F–2(f) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(f)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Supply chain elasticity
(A)
In general
For the purpose of carrying out subsection (a)(3)(K), there is authorized to be appropriated $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024, to remain available until expended.
(B)
Relation to other amounts
The amount authorized to be appropriated by subparagraph (A) for the purpose of carrying out subsection (a)(3)(K) is in addition to any other amounts available for such purpose.
.
