1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Paul D. Wellstone Building Act of 2022
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
Paul David Wellstone was born on July 21, 1944, in Washington, DC, and raised in Arlington, Virginia, as the second child of Ukrainian Jewish immigrants Leon and Minnie Wellstone;
(2)
Wellstone graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill—
(A)
in 1965, with a bachelor's degree in political science; and
(B)
in 1969, with a Ph.D. in political science;
(3)
after earning his Ph.D., Wellstone moved to Minnesota to teach political science at Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota, during which he became an advocate for marginalized communities and fought for improved healthcare, education, housing, and labor and human rights;
(4)
as an activist, Wellstone helped to bring attention to issues important to the people by protesting in favor of peace, civil rights, and social justice, including by standing by farmers and working families in their struggles;
(5)
in 1990, Wellstone extended his community activism during his first run for the Senate;
(6)
as an underdog, Wellstone was the only candidate to unseat an incumbent Senator in the 1990 election;
(7)
the grassroots campaign that was run by Wellstone became well-known for the green bus that he used to travel across Minnesota;
(8)
Senator Wellstone continued his commitment to activism throughout his time in the Senate, including by pushing for legislation that—
(A)
expanded support for mental health care coverage;
(B)
increased the Federal minimum wage; and
(C)
offered greater funding and protections for workers, seniors, schools, and
atomic
veterans;
(9)
in 1997, Senator Wellstone traveled across the country on
The Children’s Tour
to hear from disadvantaged communities across the United States;
(10)
on October 25, 2002, at the age of 57, Senator Wellstone was killed in a plane crash in Minnesota along with his wife, daughter, and several campaign staff; and
(11)
the loss of Senator Wellstone was mourned across the United States, but his legacy of advocacy and candor will always be remembered.
3.
Paul D. Wellstone Federal Building
(a)
Redesignation
The Federal building located at 212 Third Avenue South in Minneapolis, Minnesota, shall be known and designated as the
Paul D. Wellstone Federal Building
.
(b)
References
Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Federal building referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the
Paul D. Wellstone Federal Building
.
