1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Early Childhood Data Systems Act
.
2.
State administrative improvement
Section 658L of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 9858j
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
State administrative improvement activities
(1)
Grants
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall make grants to covered lead agencies—
(i)
to establish, or expand and improve, activities to obtain existing or future data collected by—
(I)
the covered lead agency involved or a contractor of the agency, such as a child care resource and referral agency; or
(II)
the agency administering a related program referred to in paragraph (4)(B), relating to the data system for the program; and
(ii)
to use the data to inform and improve administration of child care and related programs, for the State, territory, or Indian tribe involved.
(B)
Number of grants
The Secretary may make grants to not more than 10 covered lead agencies under this subsection.
(C)
Duration and amounts
The Secretary may make the grants for periods of 5 years, in amounts of not less than $50,000, and not more than $500,000, for each year in the grant period involved.
(2)
Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, a covered lead agency shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including—
(A)
how the grant funds will be used to improve data usage and processing;
(B)
how the grant funds will improve utilization of child care assistance, by minimizing the administrative burden on families seeking child care assistance under this subchapter; and
(C)
if the covered lead agency intends to work with other entities to carry out the activities described in this subsection, how the covered lead agency intends to work with such entities.
(3)
Priority
In determining which covered lead agencies receive grants under this subsection, the Secretary shall give priority to the 1 covered lead agency that demonstrates, in the agency's application submitted under paragraph (2), the most need for activities that are described in paragraph (4)(B) and are determined by the Secretary, in the discretion of the Secretary, to be appropriate.
(4)
Use of funds
(A)
In general
A covered lead agency that receives a grant under this section shall use the grant funds to analyze the existing or future data described in paragraph (1)(A)(i) to determine how the State, territory, or Indian tribe will improve, and to use the data to improve, one or more of the following:
(i)
Minimizing the administrative burden on families seeking child care assistance under this subchapter.
(ii)
Reducing barriers to access to the child care assistance.
(iii)
Improving equity and reducing disparities in distribution of that assistance.
(iv)
Improving related customer services.
(v)
Decreasing processing time in providing those services.
(vi)
Reducing temporary loss of child care assistance by families of eligible children, particularly during renewal periods.
(B)
Data systems
The covered lead agency shall use the grant funds—
(i)
to integrate, or make interoperable, data systems used to administer the child care program (operated by the covered lead agency or a contractor of the agency) with related public assistance programs; and
(ii)
to provide for a system upgrade for the data system of the child care program, including by purchasing new computers and equipment.
(5)
Reports
A covered lead agency that receives a grant under this subsection shall, not later than the last day of the grant period, prepare and submit to the Secretary a report that describes how the grant funds have enabled the State, territory, or Indian tribe involved to use data and data systems more effectively and to carry out an activity described in paragraph (4)(A).
(6)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Covered lead agency
The term
covered lead agency
means—
(i)
with respect to a State, the State’s lead agency; and
(ii)
with respect to a territory or an Indian tribe, the analogous agency for the territory or tribe.
(B)
Territory
The term
territory
means a jurisdiction referred to in section 658O(a)(1).
.
3.
Technical amendments
(a)
Administrative costs
Section 658E(c)(3)(C) of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 9858c(c)(3)(C)
) is amended, in the second sentence, by inserting
or carrying out activities under section 658L(c)
before the period at the end.
(b)
Appropriations
Section 658O(a) of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 9858m(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraphs (1), (3), and (4), by striking
this subchapter
and inserting
section 658B
; and
(2)
in paragraph (5), by striking
this subchapter
the first place it appears and inserting
section 658B
.
